Configuring IPsec encryption

With IPsec enabled, you can encrypt both internal pod-to-pod cluster traffic between nodes and external traffic between pods and IPsec endpoints external to your cluster. All pod-to-pod network traffic between nodes on the OVN-Kubernetes cluster network is encrypted with IPsec in Transport mode.

IPsec is disabled by default. It can be enabled either during or after installing the cluster. For information about cluster installation, see "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation overview.

If your cluster uses hosted control planes for Red Hat "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", IPsec is not supported for IPsec encryption of either pod-to-pod or traffic to external hosts.
IPsec on IBM Cloud&#174; supports only NAT-T. Using ESP is not supported.
Use the procedures in the following documentation to:

Enable and disable IPSec after cluster installation

Configure IPsec encryption for traffic between the cluster and external hosts

Verify that IPsec encrypts traffic between pods on different nodes
Modes of operation
When using IPsec on your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, you can choose from the following operating modes:
Prerequisites
For IPsec support for encrypting traffic to external hosts, ensure that the following prerequisites are met:

The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin must be configured in local gateway mode, where ovnKubernetesConfig.gatewayConfig.routingViaHost=true.

The NMState Operator is installed. This Operator is required for specifying the IPsec configuration. For more information, see About the Kubernetes NMState Operator.

The Butane tool (butane) is installed. To install Butane, see Installing Butane.


These prerequisites are required to add certificates into the host NSS database and to configure IPsec to communicate with external hosts.
Network connectivity requirements when IPsec is enabled
You must configure the network connectivity between machines to allow "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster components to communicate. Each machine must be able to resolve the hostnames of all other machines in the cluster.
IPsec encryption for pod-to-pod traffic
For IPsec encryption of pod-to-pod traffic, the following sections describe which specific pod-to-pod traffic is encrypted, what kind of encryption protocol is used, and how X.509 certificates are handled. These sections do not apply to IPsec encryption between the cluster and external hosts, which you must configure manually for your specific external network infrastructure.

Types of network traffic flows encrypted by pod-to-pod IPsec
With IPsec enabled, only the following network traffic flows between pods are encrypted:

Traffic between pods on different nodes on the cluster network

Traffic from a pod on the host network to a pod on the cluster network


The following traffic flows are not encrypted:

Traffic between pods on the same node on the cluster network

Traffic between pods on the host network

Traffic from a pod on the cluster network to a pod on the host network


The encrypted and unencrypted flows are illustrated in the following diagram:
Encryption protocol and IPsec mode
The encrypt cipher used is AES-GCM-16-256. The integrity check value (ICV) is 16 bytes. The key length is 256 bits.

The IPsec mode used is Transport mode, a mode that encrypts end-to-end communication by adding an Encapsulated Security Payload (ESP) header to the IP header of the original packet and encrypts the packet data. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not currently use or support IPsec Tunnel mode for pod-to-pod communication.
Security certificate generation and rotation
The Cluster Network Operator (CNO) generates a self-signed X.509 certificate authority (CA) that is used by IPsec for encryption. Certificate signing requests (CSRs) from each node are automatically fulfilled by the CNO.

The CA is valid for 10 years. The individual node certificates are valid for 5 years and are automatically rotated after 4 1/2 years elapse.
IPsec encryption for external traffic
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports IPsec encryption for traffic to external hosts with TLS certificates that you must supply.

Supported platforms
This feature is supported on the following platforms:

Bare metal

Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP)

VMware vSphere


If you have Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) worker nodes, these do not support IPsec encryption for external traffic.
If your cluster uses hosted control planes for Red Hat "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", configuring IPsec for encrypting traffic to external hosts is not supported.
Limitations
Ensure that the following prohibitions are observed:

IPv6 configuration is not currently supported by the NMState Operator when configuring IPsec for external traffic.

Certificate common names (CN) in the provided certificate bundle must not begin with the ovs_ prefix, because this naming can conflict with pod-to-pod IPsec CN names in the Network Security Services (NSS) database of each node.
Enabling IPsec encryption
As a cluster administrator, you can enable pod-to-pod IPsec encryption and IPsec encryption between the cluster and external IPsec endpoints.

You can configure IPsec in either of the following modes:

Full: Encryption for pod-to-pod and external traffic

External: Encryption for external traffic


If you need to configure encryption for external traffic in addition to pod-to-pod traffic, you must also complete the "Configuring IPsec encryption for external traffic" procedure.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You are logged in to the cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You have reduced the size of your cluster MTU by 46 bytes to allow for the overhead of the IPsec ESP header.


To enable IPsec encryption, enter the following command:

Optional: If you need to encrypt traffic to external hosts, complete the "Configuring IPsec encryption for external traffic" procedure.


To find the names of the OVN-Kubernetes data plane pods, enter the following command:

Verify that IPsec is enabled on your cluster by running the following command:
Configuring IPsec encryption for external traffic
As a cluster administrator, to encrypt external traffic with IPsec you must configure IPsec for your network infrastructure, including providing PKCS#12 certificates. Because this procedure uses Butane to create machine configs, you must have the butane command installed.

After you apply the machine config, the Machine Config Operator reboots affected nodes in your cluster to rollout the new machine config.
Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have installed the butane utility on your local computer.

You have installed the NMState Operator on the cluster.

You are logged in to the cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You have an existing PKCS#12 certificate for the IPsec endpoint and a CA cert in PEM format.

You enabled IPsec in either Full or External mode on your cluster.

The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin must be configured in local gateway mode, where ovnKubernetesConfig.gatewayConfig.routingViaHost=true.


Create an IPsec configuration with an NMState Operator node network configuration policy. For more information, see Libreswan as an IPsec VPN implementation.

Provide the following certificate files to add to the Network Security Services (NSS) database on each host. These files are imported as part of the Butane configuration in subsequent steps.

Create a machine config to add your certificates to the cluster:

To apply the machine configs to your cluster, enter the following command:

Check the machine config pool status by entering the following command:

To confirm that IPsec machine configs rolled out successfully, enter the following commands:


For more information about the nmstate IPsec API, see IPsec Encryption
Disabling IPsec encryption for an external IPsec endpoint
As a cluster administrator, you can remove an existing IPsec tunnel to an external host.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You are logged in to the cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You enabled IPsec in either Full or External mode on your cluster.


Create a file named remove-ipsec-tunnel.yaml with the following YAML:

To remove the IPsec tunnel, enter the following command:
Disabling IPsec encryption
As a cluster administrator, you can disable IPsec encryption.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Log in to the cluster with a user with cluster-admin privileges.


To disable IPsec encryption, enter the following command:

Optional: You can increase the size of your cluster MTU by 46 bytes because there is no longer any overhead from the IPsec ESP header in IP packets.
Additional resources
Configuring a VPN with IPsec in Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9

Installing Butane

About the OVN-Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) network plugin

Changing the MTU for the cluster network

Network [operator.openshift.io/v1] API