Converting to IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack networking

As a cluster administrator, you can convert your IPv4 single-stack cluster to a dual-network cluster network that supports IPv4 and IPv6 address families. After converting to dual-stack, all newly created pods are dual-stack enabled.

While using dual-stack networking, you cannot use IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses, such as ::FFFF:198.51.100.1, where IPv6 is required.

A dual-stack network is supported on clusters provisioned on bare metal, IBM Power(R), IBM Z(R) infrastructure, single-node OpenShift, and VMware vSphere.
Converting to a dual-stack cluster network
As a cluster administrator, you can convert your single-stack cluster network to a dual-stack cluster network.

After converting to dual-stack networking only newly created pods are assigned IPv6 addresses. Any pods created before the conversion must be recreated to receive an IPv6 address.
You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You are logged in to the cluster with a user with cluster-admin privileges.

Your cluster uses the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.

The cluster nodes have IPv6 addresses.

You have configured an IPv6-enabled router based on your infrastructure.


To specify IPv6 address blocks for the cluster and service networks, create a file containing the following YAML:

To patch the cluster network configuration, enter the following command:


Complete the following step to verify that the cluster network recognizes the IPv6 address blocks that you specified in the previous procedure.

Display the network configuration:
Converting to a single-stack cluster network
As a cluster administrator, you can convert your dual-stack cluster network to a single-stack cluster network.

You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You are logged in to the cluster with a user with cluster-admin privileges.

Your cluster uses the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.

The cluster nodes have IPv6 addresses.

You have enabled dual-stack networking.


Edit the networks.config.openshift.io custom resource (CR) by running the
following command:

Remove the IPv6 specific configuration that you have added to the cidr and hostPrefix fields in the previous procedure.