Installing a cluster on AWS

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.16, you can install a cluster on Amazon Web Services (AWS) that uses the default configuration options.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You configured an AWS account to host the cluster.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.
Deploying the cluster
You can install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that the cloud provider account on your host has the correct permissions to deploy the cluster. An account with incorrect permissions causes the installation process to fail with an error message that displays the missing permissions.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:

Provide values at the prompts:

Optional: Remove or disable the AdministratorAccess policy from the IAM
account that you used to install the cluster.


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
See Configuration and credential file settings in the AWS documentation for more information about AWS profile and credential configuration.
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation.

You deployed an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:
Logging in to the cluster by using the web console
The kubeadmin user exists by default after an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation. You can log in to your cluster as the kubeadmin user by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the installation host.

You completed a cluster installation and all cluster Operators are available.


Obtain the password for the kubeadmin user from the kubeadmin-password file on the installation host:

List the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console route:

Navigate to the route detailed in the output of the preceding command in a web browser and log in as the kubeadmin user.


See Accessing the web console for more details about accessing and understanding the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.
Next steps
Validating an installation.

Customize your cluster.

If necessary, you can opt out of remote health reporting.

If necessary, you can remove cloud provider credentials.