Creating applications from installed Operators

Operators are a method of packaging, deploying, and managing a Kubernetes application. You can create applications on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" using Operators that have been installed by a cluster administrator.

This guide walks developers through an example of creating applications from an installed Operator using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

See the
Operators
guide for more on how Operators work and how the Operator Lifecycle Manager is
integrated in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".
Creating an etcd cluster using an Operator
This procedure walks through creating a new etcd cluster using the etcd Operator, managed by Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM).

Access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15" cluster.

The etcd Operator already installed cluster-wide by an administrator.


Create a new project in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console for this procedure. This example uses a project called my-etcd.

Navigate to the Operators -> Installed Operators page. The Operators that have been installed to the cluster by the
cluster administrator
and are available for use are shown here as a list of cluster service versions (CSVs). CSVs are used to launch and manage the software provided by the Operator.

On the Installed Operators page, click the etcd Operator to view more details and available actions.

Create a new etcd cluster:

Click the example etcd cluster, then click the Resources tab to see that your project now contains a number of resources created and configured automatically by the Operator.

All users with the edit role in a given project can create, manage, and delete application instances (an etcd cluster, in this example) managed by Operators that have already been created in the project, in a self-service manner, just like a cloud service. If you want to enable additional users with this ability, project administrators can add the role using the following command:


You now have an etcd cluster that will react to failures and rebalance data as pods become unhealthy or are migrated between nodes in the cluster. Most importantly, cluster administrators or developers with proper access can now easily use the database with their applications.