Telco RAN DU use model overview

Use the following information to plan telco RAN DU workloads, cluster resources, and hardware specifications for the hub cluster and managed single-node OpenShift clusters.
Telco RAN DU application workloads
DU worker nodes must have 3rd Generation Xeon (Ice Lake) 2.20 GHz or better CPUs with firmware tuned for maximum performance.

5G RAN DU user applications and workloads should conform to the following best practices and application limits:

Develop cloud-native network functions (CNFs) that conform to the latest version of the CNF best practices guide.

Use SR-IOV for high performance networking.

Use exec probes sparingly and only when no other suitable options are available
Telco RAN DU representative reference application workload characteristics
The representative reference application workload has the following characteristics:

Has a maximum of 15 pods and 30 containers for the vRAN application including its management and control functions

Uses a maximum of 2 ConfigMap and 4 Secret CRs per pod

Uses a maximum of 10 exec probes with a frequency of not less than 10 seconds

Incremental application load on the kube-apiserver is less than 10% of the cluster platform usage

Application logs are not collected by the platform log collector

Aggregate traffic on the primary CNI is less than 1 MBps
Telco RAN DU worker node cluster resource utilization
The maximum number of running pods in the system, inclusive of application workloads and "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" pods, is 120.


Resource utilization
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" resource utilization varies depending on many factors including application workload characteristics such as:


Cluster resource requirements are applicable under the following conditions:

The cluster is running the described representative application workload.

The cluster is managed with the constraints described in Hub cluster management resources.

Components noted as optional in the RAN DU use model configuration are not applied.


You will need to do additional analysis to determine the impact on resource utilization and ability to meet KPI targets for configurations outside the scope of the Telco RAN DU reference design. You might have to allocate additional resources in the cluster depending on your requirements.
Hub cluster management characteristics
Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (RHACM) is the recommended cluster management solution. Configure it to the following limits on the hub cluster:

Configure a maximum of 5 RHACM policies with a compliant evaluation interval of at least 10 minutes.

Use a maximum of 10 managed cluster templates in policies.
Where possible, use hub-side templating.

Disable all RHACM add-ons except for the policy-controller and observability-controller add-ons.
Set Observability to the default configuration.
Telco RAN DU RDS components
The following sections describe the various "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" components and configurations that you use to configure and deploy clusters to run telco RAN DU workloads.


Ensure that components that are not included in the telco RAN DU profile do not affect the CPU resources allocated to workload applications.
Out of tree drivers are not supported.
KPI test results overview
All results are taken from 12-hour test runs.


Realtime kernel KPI test
Workload nodes running the realtime kernel are validated to these performance KPIs:
Non-realtime kernel KPI test
The non-realtime kernel can be run with a reduced predictable latency target.
The following performance KPIs are validated:


cyclictest tests are not applicable for non-realtime systems.

RFC2544 KPI test



The test application is the DPDK testpmd utility.

PTP network synchronization