Source-to-image

You can use the Red Hat Software Collections images as a foundation for applications that rely on specific runtime environments such as Node.js, Perl, or Python. You can use the Red Hat Java Source-to-Image for OpenShift documentation as a reference for runtime environments that use Java. Special versions of some of these runtime base images are referred to as Source-to-Image (S2I) images. With S2I images, you can insert your code into a base image environment that is ready to run that code.

S2I images include:

.NET

Java

Go

Node.js

Perl

PHP

Python

Ruby


S2I images are available for you to use directly from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console by following procedure:

Log in to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console using your login credentials. The default view for the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console is the Administrator perspective.

Use the perspective switcher to switch to the Developer perspective.

In the +Add view, use the Project drop-down list to select an existing project or create a new project.

Click All services in the Developer Catalog tile.

Click Builder Images under Type to see the available S2I images.


S2I images are also available though the Cluster Samples Operator.
Source-to-image build process overview
Source-to-image (S2I) produces ready-to-run images by injecting source code into a container that prepares that source code to be run. It performs the following steps:

Runs the FROM <builder image> command

Copies the source code to a defined location in the builder image

Runs the assemble script in the builder image

Sets the run script in the builder image as the default command


Buildah then creates the container image.
Additional resources
Configuring the Cluster Samples Operator

Using build strategies

Troubleshooting the Source-to-Image process

Creating images from source code with source-to-image

About testing source-to-image images

Creating images from source code with source-to-image