Recommended etcd practices

This topic provides recommended performance and scalability practices for etcd in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".
Recommended etcd practices
Because etcd writes data to disk and persists proposals on disk, its performance depends on disk performance. Although etcd is not particularly I/O intensive, it requires a low latency block device for optimal performance and stability. Because etcd's consensus protocol depends on persistently storing metadata to a log (WAL), etcd is sensitive to disk-write latency. Slow disks and disk activity from other processes can cause long fsync latencies.

Those latencies can cause etcd to miss heartbeats, not commit new proposals to the disk on time, and ultimately experience request timeouts and temporary leader loss. High write latencies also lead to an OpenShift API slowness, which affects cluster performance. Because of these reasons, avoid colocating other workloads on the control-plane nodes that are I/O sensitive or intensive and share the same underlying I/O infrastructure.

In terms of latency, run etcd on top of a block device that can write at least 50 IOPS of 8000 bytes long sequentially. That is, with a latency of 10ms, keep in mind that uses fdatasync to synchronize each write in the WAL. For heavy loaded clusters, sequential 500 IOPS of 8000 bytes (2 ms) are recommended. To measure those numbers, you can use a benchmarking tool, such as fio.

To achieve such performance, run etcd on machines that are backed by SSD or NVMe disks with low latency and high throughput. Consider single-level cell (SLC) solid-state drives (SSDs), which provide 1 bit per memory cell, are durable and reliable, and are ideal for write-intensive workloads.

The load on etcd arises from static factors, such as the number of nodes and pods, and dynamic factors, including changes in endpoints due to pod autoscaling, pod restarts, job executions, and other workload-related events. To accurately size your etcd setup, you must analyze the specific requirements of your workload. Consider the number of nodes, pods, and other relevant factors that impact the load on etcd.
The following hard disk features provide optimal etcd performance:

Low latency to support fast read operation.

High-bandwidth writes for faster compactions and defragmentation.

High-bandwidth reads for faster recovery from failures.

Solid state drives as a minimum selection, however NVMe drives are preferred.

Server-grade hardware from various manufacturers for increased reliability.

RAID 0 technology for increased performance.

Dedicated etcd drives. Do not place log files or other heavy workloads on etcd drives.


Avoid NAS or SAN setups and spinning drives. Ceph Rados Block Device (RBD) and other types of network-attached storage can result in unpredictable network latency. To provide fast storage to etcd nodes at scale, use PCI passthrough to pass NVM devices directly to the nodes.
Always benchmark by using utilities such as fio. You can use such utilities to continuously monitor the cluster performance as it increases.

Avoid using the Network File System (NFS) protocol or other network based file systems.
Some key metrics to monitor on a deployed "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster are p99 of etcd disk write ahead log duration and the number of etcd leader changes. Use Prometheus to track these metrics.

The etcd member database sizes can vary in a cluster during normal operations. This difference does not affect cluster upgrades, even if the leader size is different from the other members.
To validate the hardware for etcd before or after you create the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, you can use fio.

Container runtimes such as Podman or Docker are installed on the machine that you're testing.

Data is written to the /var/lib/etcd path.


Run fio and analyze the results:


The output reports whether the disk is fast enough to host etcd by comparing the 99th percentile of the fsync metric captured from the run to see if it is less than 10 ms. A few of the most important etcd metrics that might affected by I/O performance are as follow:

etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_bucket metric reports the etcd's WAL fsync duration

etcd_disk_backend_commit_duration_seconds_bucket  metric reports the etcd backend commit latency duration

etcd_server_leader_changes_seen_total metric reports the leader changes


Because etcd replicates the requests among all the members, its performance strongly depends on network input/output (I/O) latency. High network latencies result in etcd heartbeats taking longer than the election timeout, which results in leader elections that are disruptive to the cluster. A key metric to monitor on a deployed "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster is the 99th percentile of etcd network peer latency on each etcd cluster member. Use Prometheus to track the metric.

The histogram_quantile(0.99, rate(etcd_network_peer_round_trip_time_seconds_bucket[2m])) metric reports the round trip time for etcd to finish replicating the client requests between the members. Ensure that it is less than 50 ms.

How to use fio to check etcd disk performance in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"

etcd performance troubleshooting guide for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
Moving etcd to a different disk
You can move etcd from a shared disk to a separate disk to prevent or resolve performance issues.

The Machine Config Operator (MCO) is responsible for mounting a secondary disk for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} container storage.

This procedure does not move parts of the root file system, such as /var/, to another disk or partition on an installed node.
You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have access to the cluster with cluster-admin privileges.

The MachineConfigPool must match metadata.labels[machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role]. This applies to a controller, worker, or a custom pool.


Attach the new disk to the cluster and verify that the disk is detected in the node by using the lsblk command in a debug shell:

Create a MachineConfig YAML file named etcd-mc.yml with contents such as the following, replacing instances of <new_disk_name> with the noted device name:

Log in to the cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges and create the machine configuration:

After the nodes are on a separate disk, update the etcd-mc.yml file with contents such as the following, replacing instances of <new_disk_name> with the noted device name:

Apply the modified version that removes the logic for creating and syncing the device to prevent the nodes from rebooting:


Run the grep <new_disk_name> /proc/mounts command in a debug shell for the node to ensure that the disk mounted:


Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)
Defragmenting etcd data
For large and dense clusters, etcd can suffer from poor performance if the keyspace grows too large and exceeds the space quota. Periodically maintain and defragment etcd to free up space in the data store. Monitor Prometheus for etcd metrics and defragment it when required; otherwise, etcd can raise a cluster-wide alarm that puts the cluster into a maintenance mode that accepts only key reads and deletes.

Monitor these key metrics:

etcd_server_quota_backend_bytes, which is the current quota limit

etcd_mvcc_db_total_size_in_use_in_bytes, which indicates the actual database usage after a history compaction

etcd_mvcc_db_total_size_in_bytes, which shows the database size, including free space waiting for defragmentation


Defragment etcd data to reclaim disk space after events that cause disk fragmentation, such as etcd history compaction.

History compaction is performed automatically every five minutes and leaves gaps in the back-end database. This fragmented space is available for use by etcd, but is not available to the host file system. You must defragment etcd to make this space available to the host file system.

Defragmentation occurs automatically, but you can also trigger it manually.

Automatic defragmentation is good for most cases, because the etcd operator uses cluster information to determine the most efficient operation for the user.
Automatic defragmentation
The etcd Operator automatically defragments disks. No manual intervention is needed.

Verify that the defragmentation process is successful by viewing one of these logs:

etcd logs

cluster-etcd-operator pod

operator status error log


Automatic defragmentation can cause leader election failure in various OpenShift core components, such as the Kubernetes controller manager, which triggers a restart of the failing component. The restart is harmless and either triggers failover to the next running instance or the component resumes work again after the restart.
etcd member has been defragmented: <member_name>, memberID: <member_id>
failed defrag on member: <member_name>, memberID: <member_id>: <error_message>
Manual defragmentation
A Prometheus alert indicates when you need to use manual defragmentation. The alert is displayed in two cases:

When etcd uses more than 50% of its available space for more than 10 minutes

When etcd is actively using less than 50% of its total database size for more than 10 minutes


You can also determine whether defragmentation is needed by checking the etcd database size in MB that will be freed by defragmentation with the PromQL expression: (etcd_mvcc_db_total_size_in_bytes - etcd_mvcc_db_total_size_in_use_in_bytes)/1024/1024

Defragmenting etcd is a blocking action. The etcd member will not respond until defragmentation is complete. For this reason, wait at least one minute between defragmentation actions on each of the pods to allow the cluster to recover.
Follow this procedure to defragment etcd data on each etcd member.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


Determine which etcd member is the leader, because the leader should be defragmented last.

Defragment an etcd member.

If any NOSPACE alarms were triggered due to the space quota being exceeded, clear them.
Setting tuning parameters for etcd
You can set the control plane hardware speed to "Standard", "Slower", or the default, which is "".

The default setting allows the system to decide which speed to use. This value enables upgrades from versions where this feature does not exist, as the system can select values from previous versions.

By selecting one of the other values, you are overriding the default. If you see many leader elections due to timeouts or missed heartbeats and your system is set to "" or "Standard", set the hardware speed to "Slower" to make the system more tolerant to the increased latency.

Tuning etcd latency tolerances is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Changing hardware speed tolerance
To change the hardware speed tolerance for etcd, complete the following steps.

You have edited the cluster instance to enable Technology Preview features. For more information, see "Understanding feature gates".


Check to see what the current value is by entering the following command:

Change the value by entering the following command. Replace <value> with one of the valid values: "", "Standard", or "Slower":

Review the output:

Verify that the value was changed by entering the following command:

Wait for etcd pods to roll out:

Enter the following command to review to the values:


Understanding feature gates