Using the oc-compliance plugin

Although the Compliance Operator automates many of the checks and remediations for the cluster, the full process of bringing a cluster into compliance often requires administrator interaction with the Compliance Operator API and other components. The oc-compliance plugin makes the process easier.
Installing the oc-compliance plugin
Extract the oc-compliance image to get the oc-compliance binary:
Fetching raw results
When a compliance scan finishes, the results of the individual checks are listed in the resulting ComplianceCheckResult custom resource (CR). However, an administrator or auditor might require the complete details of the scan. The OpenSCAP tool creates an Advanced Recording Format (ARF) formatted file with the detailed results. This ARF file is too large to store in a config map or other standard Kubernetes resource, so a persistent volume (PV) is created to contain it.

Fetching the results from the PV with the Compliance Operator is a four-step process. However, with the oc-compliance plugin, you can use a single command:

<object-type> can be either scansettingbinding, compliancescan or compliancesuite, depending on which of these objects the scans were launched with.

<object-name> is the name of the binding, suite, or scan object to gather the ARF file for, and <output-path> is the local directory to place the results.


View the list of files in the directory:

$ ls /tmp/ocp4-cis-node-master/
ocp4-cis-node-master-ip-10-0-128-89.ec2.internal-pod.xml.bzip2  ocp4-cis-node-master-ip-10-0-150-5.ec2.internal-pod.xml.bzip2  ocp4-cis-node-master-ip-10-0-163-32.ec2.internal-pod.xml.bzip2
Extract the results:

$ bunzip2 -c resultsdir/worker-scan/worker-scan-stage-459-tqkg7-compute-0-pod.xml.bzip2 > resultsdir/worker-scan/worker-scan-ip-10-0-170-231.us-east-2.compute.internal-pod.xml
View the results:

$ ls resultsdir/worker-scan/
worker-scan-ip-10-0-170-231.us-east-2.compute.internal-pod.xml
worker-scan-stage-459-tqkg7-compute-0-pod.xml.bzip2
worker-scan-stage-459-tqkg7-compute-1-pod.xml.bzip2
Re-running scans
Although it is possible to run scans as scheduled jobs, you must often re-run a scan on demand, particularly after remediations are applied or when other changes to the cluster are made.

Rerunning a scan with the Compliance Operator requires use of an annotation on the scan object. However, with the oc-compliance plugin you can rerun a scan with a single command. Enter the following command to rerun the scans for the ScanSettingBinding object named my-binding:
Using ScanSettingBinding custom resources
When using the ScanSetting and ScanSettingBinding custom resources (CRs) that the Compliance Operator provides, it is possible to run scans for multiple profiles while using a common set of scan options, such as schedule, machine roles, tolerations, and so on. While that is easier than working with multiple ComplianceSuite or ComplianceScan objects, it can confuse new users.

The oc compliance bind subcommand helps you create a ScanSettingBinding CR.

Run:

To apply the default settings to the ocp4-cis and ocp4-cis-node profiles, run:
Printing controls
Compliance standards are generally organized into a hierarchy as follows:

A benchmark is the top-level definition of a set of controls for a particular standard. For example, FedRAMP Moderate or Center for Internet Security (CIS) v.1.6.0.

A control describes a family of requirements that must be met in order to be in compliance with the benchmark. For example, FedRAMP AC-01 (access control policy and procedures).

A rule is a single check that is specific for the system being brought into compliance, and one or more of these rules map to a control.

The Compliance Operator handles the grouping of rules into a profile for a single benchmark. It can be difficult to determine which controls that the set of rules in a profile satisfy.


The oc compliance controls subcommand provides a report of the standards and controls that a given profile satisfies:
Fetching compliance remediation details
The Compliance Operator provides remediation objects that are used to automate the changes required to make the cluster compliant. The fetch-fixes subcommand can help you understand exactly which configuration remediations are used. Use the fetch-fixes subcommand to extract the remediation objects from a profile, rule, or ComplianceRemediation object into a directory to inspect.

View the remediations for a profile:

You can view a sample of the YAML file. The head command will show you the first 10 lines:

View the remediation from a ComplianceRemediation object created after a scan:

You can view a sample of the YAML file. The head command will show you the first 10 lines:


Use caution before applying remediations directly. Some remediations might not be applicable in bulk, such as the usbguard rules in the moderate profile. In these cases, allow the Compliance Operator to apply the rules because it addresses the dependencies and ensures that the cluster remains in a good state.
Viewing ComplianceCheckResult object details
When scans are finished running, ComplianceCheckResult objects are created for the individual scan rules. The view-result subcommand provides a human-readable output of the ComplianceCheckResult object details.

Run: