Networking overview

OpenShift Virtualization provides advanced networking functionality by using custom resources and plugins. Virtual machines (VMs) are integrated with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" networking and its ecosystem.

You cannot run OpenShift Virtualization on a single-stack IPv6 cluster.
OpenShift Virtualization networking glossary
The following terms are used throughout OpenShift Virtualization documentation:


Container Network Interface (CNI)
A Cloud Native Computing Foundation
project, focused on container network connectivity.
OpenShift Virtualization uses CNI plugins to build upon the basic Kubernetes networking functionality.
Multus
A "meta" CNI plugin that allows multiple CNIs to exist so that a pod or virtual machine can use the interfaces it needs.
Custom resource definition (CRD)
A Kubernetes
API resource that allows you to define custom resources, or an object defined by using the CRD API resource.
Network attachment definition (NAD)
A CRD introduced by the Multus project that allows you to attach pods, virtual machines, and virtual machine instances to one or more networks.
Node network configuration policy (NNCP)
A CRD introduced by the nmstate project, describing the requested network configuration on nodes.
You update the node network configuration, including adding and removing interfaces, by applying a NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy manifest to the cluster.
Using the default pod network

Connecting a virtual machine to the default pod network
Each VM is connected by default to the default internal pod network. You can add or remove network interfaces by editing the VM specification.
Exposing a virtual machine as a service
You can expose a VM within the cluster or outside the cluster by creating a Service object. For on-premise clusters, you can configure a load balancing service by using the MetalLB Operator. You can install the MetalLB Operator by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the CLI.
Configuring VM secondary network interfaces

Connecting a virtual machine to a Linux bridge network
Install the Kubernetes NMState Operator to configure Linux bridges, VLANs, and bondings for your secondary networks.



Connecting a virtual machine to an SR-IOV network
You can use Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) network devices with additional networks on your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster installed on bare metal or Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) infrastructure for applications that require high bandwidth or low latency.
Connecting a virtual machine to an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network
You can connect a VM to an Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network. OpenShift Virtualization supports the layer 2 and localnet topologies for OVN-Kubernetes.


To configure an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network and attach a VM to that network, perform the following steps:

Configure an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network by creating a network attachment definition (NAD).

Connect the VM to the OVN-Kubernetes secondary network by adding the network details to the VM specification.



Hot plugging secondary network interfaces
You can add or remove secondary network interfaces without stopping your VM. OpenShift Virtualization supports hot plugging and hot unplugging for Linux bridge interfaces that use the VirtIO device driver.



Using DPDK with SR-IOV
The Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) provides a set of libraries and drivers for fast packet processing. You can configure clusters and VMs to run DPDK workloads over SR-IOV networks.
Configuring a dedicated network for live migration
You can configure a dedicated Multus network for live migration. A dedicated network minimizes the effects of network saturation on tenant workloads during live migration.



Accessing a virtual machine by using the cluster FQDN
You can access a VM that is attached to a secondary network interface from outside the cluster by using its fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
Configuring and viewing IP addresses
You can configure an IP address of a secondary network interface when you create a VM. The IP address is provisioned with cloud-init. You can view the IP address of a VM by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the command line. The network information is collected by the QEMU guest agent.
Integrating with OpenShift Service Mesh

Connecting a virtual machine to a service mesh
OpenShift Virtualization is integrated with OpenShift Service Mesh. You can monitor, visualize, and control traffic between pods and virtual machines.
Managing MAC address pools

Managing MAC address pools for network interfaces
The KubeMacPool component allocates MAC addresses for VM network interfaces from a shared MAC address pool. This ensures that each network interface is assigned a unique MAC address. A virtual machine instance created from that VM retains the assigned MAC address across reboots.
Configuring SSH access

Configuring SSH access to virtual machines
You can configure SSH access to VMs by using the following methods: