Connecting a virtual machine to the default pod network

You can connect a virtual machine to the default internal pod network by configuring its network interface to use the masquerade binding mode.

Traffic passing through network interfaces to the default pod network is interrupted during live migration.
Configuring masquerade mode from the command line
You can use masquerade mode to hide a virtual machine's outgoing traffic behind the pod IP address. Masquerade mode uses Network Address Translation (NAT) to connect virtual machines to the pod network backend through a Linux bridge.

Enable masquerade mode and allow traffic to enter the virtual machine by editing your virtual machine configuration file.

The virtual machine must be configured to use DHCP to acquire IPv4 addresses.


Edit the interfaces spec of your virtual machine configuration file:

Create the virtual machine:
Configuring masquerade mode with dual-stack (IPv4 and IPv6)
You can configure a new virtual machine (VM) to use both IPv6 and IPv4 on the default pod network by using cloud-init.

The Network.pod.vmIPv6NetworkCIDR field in the virtual machine instance configuration determines the static IPv6 address of the VM and the gateway IP address. These are used by the virt-launcher pod to route IPv6 traffic to the virtual machine and are not used externally. The Network.pod.vmIPv6NetworkCIDR field specifies an IPv6 address block in Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) notation. The default value is fd10:0:2::2/120. You can edit this value based on your network requirements.

When the virtual machine is running, incoming and outgoing traffic for the virtual machine is routed to both the IPv4 address and the unique IPv6 address of the virt-launcher pod. The virt-launcher pod then routes the IPv4 traffic to the DHCP address of the virtual machine, and the IPv6 traffic to the statically set IPv6 address of the virtual machine.

The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster must use the OVN-Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) network plugin configured for dual-stack.


In a new virtual machine configuration, include an interface with masquerade and configure the IPv6 address and default gateway by using cloud-init.

Create the virtual machine in the namespace:


To verify that IPv6 has been configured, start the virtual machine and view the interface status of the virtual machine instance to ensure it has an IPv6 address:


$ oc get vmi <vmi-name> -o jsonpath="{.status.interfaces[*].ipAddresses}"
About jumbo frames support
When using the OVN-Kubernetes CNI plugin, you can send unfragmented jumbo frame packets between two virtual machines (VMs) that are connected on the default pod network. Jumbo frames have a maximum transmission unit (MTU) value greater than 1500 bytes.

The VM automatically gets the MTU value of the cluster network, set by the cluster administrator, in one of the following ways:

libvirt: If the guest OS has the latest version of the VirtIO driver that can interpret incoming data via a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) config register in the emulated device.

DHCP: If the guest DHCP client can read the MTU value from the DHCP server response.


For Windows VMs that do not have a VirtIO driver, you must set the MTU manually by using netsh or a similar tool. This is because the Windows DHCP client does not read the MTU value.
Additional resources
Changing the MTU for the cluster network

Optimizing the MTU for your network