Getting support

Getting support
If you experience difficulty with a procedure described in this documentation, or with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" in general, visit the Red Hat Customer Portal.

From the Customer Portal, you can:

Search or browse through the Red Hat Knowledgebase of articles and solutions relating to Red Hat products.

Submit a support case to Red Hat Support.

Access other product documentation.


To identify issues with your cluster, you can use Insights in OpenShift Cluster Manager. Insights provides details about issues and, if available, information on how to solve a problem.

If you have a suggestion for improving this documentation or have found an error, submit a Jira issue for the most relevant documentation component. Please provide specific details, such as the section name and "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version.
About the Red Hat Knowledgebase
The Red Hat Knowledgebase provides rich content aimed at helping you make the most of Red Hat's products and technologies. The Red Hat Knowledgebase consists of articles, product documentation, and videos outlining best practices on installing, configuring, and using Red Hat products. In addition, you can search for solutions to known issues, each providing concise root cause descriptions and remedial steps.
Searching the Red Hat Knowledgebase
In the event of an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" issue, you can perform an initial search to determine if a solution already exists within the Red Hat Knowledgebase.

You have a Red Hat Customer Portal account.


Log in to the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Click Search.

In the search field, input keywords and strings relating to the problem, including:

Click the Enter key.

Optional: Select the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" product filter.

Optional: Select the Documentation content type filter.
Submitting a support case
You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have a Red Hat Customer Portal account.

You have a Red Hat Standard or Premium subscription.


Log in to the Customer Support page of the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Click Get support.

On the Cases tab of the Customer Support page:

Enter the following information:

Review the list of suggested Red Hat Knowledgebase solutions for a potential match against the problem that is being reported. If the suggested articles do not address the issue, click Continue.

Review the updated list of suggested Red Hat Knowledgebase solutions for a potential match against the problem that is being reported. The list is refined as you provide more information during the case creation process. If the suggested articles do not address the issue, click Continue.

Ensure that the account information presented is as expected, and if not, amend accordingly.

Check that the autofilled "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" Cluster ID is correct. If it is not, manually obtain your cluster ID.

Complete the following questions where prompted and then click Continue:

Upload relevant diagnostic data files and click Continue.
It is recommended to include data gathered using the oc adm must-gather command as a starting point, plus any issue specific data that is not collected by that command.

Input relevant case management details and click Continue.

Preview the case details and click Submit.
Additional resources
For details about identifying issues with your cluster, see Using Insights to identify issues with your cluster.