# Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 release notes


Red Hat Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides developers and IT organizations with a hybrid cloud application platform for deploying both new and existing applications on secure, scalable resources with minimal configuration and management. Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform supports a wide selection of programming languages and frameworks, such as Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, and PHP.
Built on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Kubernetes, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides a more secure and scalable multitenant operating system for today's enterprise-class applications, while delivering integrated application runtimes and libraries. Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform enables organizations to meet security, privacy, compliance, and governance requirements.

# About this release

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform (RHBA-2026:1481) is now available. This release uses Kubernetes 1.34 with CRI-O runtime. New features, changes, and known issues that pertain to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 are included in this topic.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 clusters are available at https://console.redhat.com/openshift. From the Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console, you can deploy Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters to either on-premises or cloud environments.

You must use RHCOS machines for the control plane and for the compute machines.

Starting from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14, the Extended Update Support (EUS) phase for even-numbered releases increases the total available lifecycle to 24 months on all supported architectures, including x86_64, 64-bit ARM (aarch64), IBM Power&#174; (ppc64le), and IBM Z&#174; (s390x) architectures. Beyond this, Red&#160;Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is available on all architecture variants of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. For more information about support for all versions, see the Red Hat Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is designed for FIPS. When running Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) or Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) booted in FIPS mode, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform core components use the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-2/140-3 Validation on only the x86_64, ppc64le, and s390x architectures.

For more information about the NIST validation program, see Cryptographic Module Validation Program. For the latest NIST status for the individual versions of RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted for validation, see Compliance Activities and Government Standards.

# Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform layered and dependent component support and compatibility

The scope of support for layered and dependent components of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform changes independently of the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version. To determine the current support status and compatibility for an add-on, refer to its release notes. For more information, see the Red Hat Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy.

# New features and enhancements

This release adds improvements related to the following components and concepts:

## API server

Dynamic updates to storage performance parameters by using VolumeAttributesClass:: 

Before this release, updating storage performance parameters such as IOPS or throughput often required manual volume reprovisioning, complex snapshot migrations, or application downtime. With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform supports the VolumeAttributesClass (VAC) API, enabling you to modify and dynamically scale storage parameters by updating the VAC assigned to a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC). This support allows on-demand performance tuning without service interruption.

## Authentication and authorization

Using the Azure kubelogin plugin for direct authentication with Microsoft Entra ID:: 

Red&#160;Hat tested authenticating to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform by using the Azure kubelogin plugin. This validation covers environments where Microsoft Entra ID is configured as the external OIDC provider for direct authentication. The following login modes for kubelogin were tested:
* Device code grant
* Service principal authentication
* Interactive web browser flow

For more information, see Enabling direct authentication with an external OIDC identity provider.
ConsoleLink support for email links:: 

The ConsoleLink Custom Resource Definition supports mailto: links. You can create email links in the OpenShift web console that open the default email client.
Impersonating a user with multiple group memberships in the console:: 

Cluster administrators can impersonate a user with multiple group memberships at the same time in the OpenShift web console. This supports reproducing effective permissions for RBAC troubleshooting.
Customizing the Code Editor theme and font size in the console:: 

With this update, users can customize the Code Editor theme and adjust the font size. By default, the Code Editor theme follows the active OpenShift Console theme, but users can now set it independently. These options improve productivity and reduce the need for frequent changes.
Quick starts for Trusted Profile Analyzer and Trusted Artifact Signer:: 

With this update, the OpenShift Console adds two quick starts for Trusted Profile Analyzer and Trusted Artifact Signer to the Overview page, making them easier to find and use. This change simplifies the user journey, improves the user experience, and strengthens product integration by highlighting Red&#160;Hat’s security ecosystem within the platform.
Grouping Helm charts under the Ecosystem header:: 

Before this update, the OpenShift Console introduced the unified view in 4.19, and the Helm UI displayed in the Admin view but outside the Ecosystem menu. With this update, the OpenShift Console displays Helm under Ecosystem, centralizing software management navigation in one location within the unified view.

## Autoscaling

Network policy support for Autoscaling Operators:: 

The following Operators now have multiple network policies that control network traffic to and from the Operator and operand pods. These policies restrict traffic to only traffic that is explicitly allowed or required.
* Cluster Resource Override Operator
* Cluster Autoscaler
* Vertical Pod Autoscaler
* Horizontal Pod Autoscaler
Applying VPA recommendations without pod re-creation:: 

You can now configure a Vertical Pod Autoscaler Operator (VPA) in the InPlaceOrRecreate mode. In this mode, the VPA attempts to apply the recommended updates without re-creating pods. If the VPA is unable to update the pods in place, the VPA falls back to re-creating the pods. For more information, see About the Vertical Pod Autoscaler Operator modes.
Cluster Autoscaler Operator can now cordon nodes before removing the node:: 

By default, when the Cluster Autoscaler Operator removes a node, it does not cordon the node when draining the pods from the node. You can configure the Operator to cordon the node before draining and moving the pods. For more information, see About the cluster autoscaler.

## Edge computing

ClusterInstance CR replaces SiteConfig CR for GitOps ZTP deployments:: In earlier releases, the SiteConfig custom resource (CR) was deprecated. This release removes support for the SiteConfig CR. You must now use the ClusterInstance CR to deploy managed clusters with GitOps ZTP. For more information, see Deploying a managed cluster with ClusterInstance and GitOps ZTP.
Support for removing devices and device classes from a volume group:: You can remove the device paths in the deviceSelector.paths field and the deviceClass object from the LVMCluster resource. For more information, see About removing devices and device classes from a volume group

## etcd

Manage etcd size by limiting the time-to-live (TTL) duration for Kubernetes events (Technology Preview):: 

With this release, you can manage etcd size by setting the eventTTLMinutes property. Having too many stale Kubernetes events in an etcd database can degrade performance. By setting the eventTTLMinutes property, you can specify how long an event can stay in the database before it is purged. For more information, see Managing etcd size by limiting the duration of Kubernetes events.

## Extensions (OLM v1)

Cluster extension support for webhooks in bundles:: 

With this update, OLM v1 supports Operators that use webhooks for validation, mutation, or conversion. For more information, see  Webhook support.
Support for SingleNamespace and OwnNamespace install modes by using the configuration API (Technology Preview):: 

If an Operator supports the SingleNamespace or OwnNamespace install modes, you can configure the Operator to watch a specified namespace. For more information, see Extension configuration.
OLM v1 software catalog in the web console (Technology Preview):: 

With this update, you can preview the OLM v1 software catalog in the web console. Select Ecosystem &#8594; Software Catalog &#8594; Operators to preview this feature. To see the OLM (Classic) software catalog, click the Enable OLM v1 (Tech Preview) toggle.

## IBM Power

The IBM Power(R) release on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 adds improvements and new capabilities to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components:: 

This release introduces support for the following features on IBM Power:
* Enable Installer-Provisioned Infrastructure (IPI) support for PowerVC [Technology Preview]
* Enable Spyre Accelerator on IBM Power(R)
The IBM Power(R) release for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 adds support for the following operator:: 
* CIFS/SMB CSI Driver Operator
* Kernel Module Management Operator (KMMO)
* Red Hat build of Kueue


[IMPORTANT]
----
When using kdump on IBM Power(R), the following limitations apply:
* Firmware-assisted dump (fadump) is not supported.
* Persistent memory dump is not supported.
----

## IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE

The IBM Z(R) and IBM(R) LinuxONE release on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 adds improvements and new capabilities to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components:: 

This release introduces support for the following features on IBM Z&#174; and IBM&#174; LinuxONE:
* Enable Spyre Accelerator on IBM Z(R)
The IBM Z(R) release for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 adds support for the following operator:: 
* Kernel Module Management Operator (KMMO)
* Red Hat build of Kueue

## Installation and update

Restricting service account impersonation to the compute nodes service account:: 

When you install a Google Cloud and configure it to use Google Cloud Workload Identity, you can now restrict the Google Cloud iam.serviceAccounts.actAs permission that the Cloud Credential Operator utility grants the Machine API controller service account at the project level to only the compute nodes service account.

For more information, see Restricting service account impersonation to the compute nodes service account.
Configuring image mode for OpenShift during installation is now supported:: 

You can now apply a custom layered image to your nodes during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation. For more information, see Applying a custom layered image during OpenShift Container Platform installation.
Installing a cluster on Google Cloud with a user-provisioned DNS is generally available:: 

You can enable a user-provisioned domain name server (DNS) instead of the default cluster-provisioned DNS solution. For example, your organization’s security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Google Cloud DNS. You can manage your DNS only for the IP addresses of the API and Ingress servers. If you use this feature, you must provide your own DNS solution that includes records for api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>. and *.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>..

Installing a cluster on Google Cloud with a user-provisioned DNS was introduced in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 with Technology Preview status. In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, it is now generally available.

For more information, see Enabling a user-managed DNS and Provisioning your own DNS records.
Installing a cluster on Microsoft Azure uses Marketplace images by default:: 

As of this update, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program uses Marketplace images by default when installing a cluster on Azure. This speeds up the installation by removing the need to upload a virtual hard disk to Azure and create an image during installation. This feature is not supported on Azure Stack Hub, or for Azure installations that use Confidential VMs.
The ccoctl utility supports preserving custom Microsoft Azure role assignments:: 

The Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) can now preserve custom role assignments by using the --preserve-existing-roles flag. Previously, the tool removed role assignments that were not defined in the CredentialsRequest, including those manually added by administrators.
Managing your own firewall rules when installing a cluster on Google Cloud into an existing VPC:: 

As of this update, you can manage your own firewall rules when installing a cluster on Google Cloud into an existing VPC by enabling the firewallRulesManagement parameter in the install-config.yaml file. You can limit the permissions that you grant to the installation program by managing your own firewall rules.

For more information, see Managing your own firewall rules.
The ccoctl utility supports Amazon Web Services permissions boundaries:: 

The Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) now supports attaching an AWS permissions boundary to the IAM roles that it creates. You can use this feature to meet organizational security requirements that restrict the maximum permissions of created roles.
Throughput customization for Amazon Web Services gp3 drives:: 

With this update, you can now customize the maximum throughput for gp3 rootVolume drives when installing a cluster on Amazon Web Services. This customization is set by modifying the compute.platform.aws.rootVolume.throughput or controlPlane.platform.aws.rootVolume.throughput parameters in the install-config.yaml file.

For more information, see Optional AWS configuration parameters.
Support for VMware vSphere Foundation 9 and VMware Cloud Foundation 9:: 

You can now install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on VMware vSphere Foundation (VVF) 9 and VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) 9.

[NOTE]
----
The following additional VCF and VVF components are outside the scope of Red Hat support:
* Management: VCF Operations, VCF Automation, VCF Fleet Management, and VCF Identity Broker.
* Networking: VMware NSX Container Plugin (NCP).
* Migration: VMware HCX.
----
Support for installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on Oracle Database Appliance (ODA):: 

With this update, you can install a cluster on Oracle Database Appliance using the Assisted Installer.

For more information, see Installing a cluster on Oracle Database Appliance by using the Assisted Installer.
Installing a dual-stack cluster on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) when the machine network is IPv6-only:: 

From RHOSP 17.1, you can deploy a dual-stack Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster when your RHOSP machine network is IPv6-only; the cluster still uses IPv4 for internal cluster and service networks.

For more information, see Configuring a cluster with dual-stack networking.
Installing a cluster on AWS with a user-provisioned DNS (Technology Preview):: 

You can enable a user-provisioned domain name server (DNS) instead of the default cluster-provisioned DNS solution. For example, your organization&#8217;s security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) DNS. As a result, you can manage the API and Ingress DNS records in your own system rather than adding the records to the DNS of the cloud. If you use this feature, you must provide your own DNS solution that includes records for api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>. and *.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>.. Enabling a user-provisioned DNS is available as a Technology Preview feature.

For more information, see Enabling a user-managed DNS and Provisioning your own DNS records.
Installing a cluster on Microsoft Azure using NAT Gateways:: 

With this update, you can install a cluster on Azure using NAT Gateways as your outbound routing strategy. NAT Gateways can minimize the risk of SNAT port exhaustion that can occur with other outbound routing strategies. You can configure NAT Gateways using the platform.azure.outboundType parameter in the install-config.yaml file.

For more information, see Additional Azure configuration parameters.
Installing a cluster using Google Cloud private and restricted API endpoints:: 

With this release, you can use Google Cloud Private Service Connect (PSC) endpoints when installing your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster so that your installation meets your organization&#8217;s strict regulatory policies.

For more information, see Optional configuration parameters.
Dell iDRAC10 supported for bare metal installation using Redfish virtual media:: 

Dell iDRAC10 versions 1.20.25.00, 1.20.60.50, and 1.20.70.50 have been tested and verified to work for installer-provisioned Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters deployed by using Redfish virtual media. iDRAC10 has not been tested with installations that use a provisioning network. For more information, see Firmware requirements for installing with virtual media.
Providing a local or self-signed CA certificate for Baseboard Management Controllers (BMCs) when installing a cluster on bare metal:: 

With this update, you can provide your own local or self-signed CA certificate to secure communication with BMCs when installing a cluster on bare metal. You can configure this certificate using the platform.baremetal.bmcCACert parameter in the install-config.yaml file. If you do not use a trusted CA certificate, you can secure BMC communication by providing your own CA certificate. You can also configure a local or self-signed CA certificate after installation, whether the cluster was installed with a different BMC CA certificate or with no BMC CA certificate.

For more information, see Additional installation configuration parameters and Configuring a local or self-signed Baseboard Management Controller CA certificate.
Running firmware upgrades for hosts in deployed bare metal clusters (Generally Available):: 

For hosts in deployed bare metal clusters, you can update firmware attributes and the firmware image. As a result, you can run firmware upgrades and update BIOS settings for hosts that are already provisioned without fully deprovisioning them. Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareComponents, HostFirmareSettings, or  HostUpdatePolicy resource can be a destructive and destabilizing action. Perform these updates only after careful consideration.

This feature was introduced in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 with Technology Preview status. This feature is now supported as generally available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.

For more information, see Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareSettings resource,
Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareComponents resource, and
Setting the HostUpdatePolicy resource.
Testing for Amazon Web Services m7 instance type:: 

As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, m7 instance types have been tested for installations on Amazon Web Services.
For more information about tested instance types, see Tested instance types for AWS.
Installing a cluster on Microsoft Azure with a user-provisioned DNS (Technology Preview):: 

You can enable a user-provisioned domain name server (DNS) instead of the default cluster-provisioned DNS solution. For example, your organization&#8217;s security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Microsoft Azure DNS. You can manage your DNS only for the IP addresses of the API and Ingress servers. If you use this feature, you must provide your own DNS solution that includes records for api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>. and *.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>.. Enabling a user-provisioned DNS is available as a Technology Preview feature.

For more information, see
Enabling a user-managed DNS and
Provisioning your own DNS records.

## Machine Config Operator

Boot image management for Azure and vSphere clusters promoted to GA:: 

Updating boot images has been promoted to GA for Microsoft Azure and VMware vSphere clusters. For more information, see Boot image management.
Configuring image mode for OpenShift during installation is now supported:: 

You can now apply a custom layered image to your nodes during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation. For more information, see Applying a custom layered image during OpenShift Container Platform installation.
Image mode for OpenShift status reporting improvements:: 

The output of the oc describe machineconfignodes <mcp_name> now contains an ImageBuildDegraded error that indicates if an image mode for OpenShift failed. For more information, see About node status during updates.
Image mode for OpenShift status reporting improvements (Technology preview):: 

The oc describe machineconfigpool <mcp_name> output,  as a Technology Preview feature, now includes the following fields that report the status of machine config updates when image mode for OpenShift is enabled:
* Spec.ConfigImage.DesiredImage. This is the desired image for that node.
* Status.ConfigImage.CurrentImage. This is the current image on that node.
* Status.Conditions.ImagePulledFromRegistry. This reports whether an image is able to pull correctly in an image mode update.

For more information, see About node status during updates.

Boot image management for control plane nodes is now supported (Technology Preview):: 

Updating boot images is now supported as a Technology Preview feature for VMware vSphere clusters. This feature allows you to configure your cluster to update the node boot image whenever you update your cluster. Previously, updating boot images was supported for worker nodes. For more information, see Boot image management.
Overriding storage or partition setup (Technology preview):: 

You can now use a MachineConfig object to change the installed disk partition schema, file systems, and RAID configurations for new nodes. Previously, for security reasons, you were blocked from changing these configurations from what was established during the cluster installation. For more information, see "Overriding storage and partition setup".

## Machine management

Creating Google Cloud Spot VMs by using compute machine sets:: With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform supports deploying Machine API compute machines on Spot VMs in Google Cloud clusters.
Google Cloud recommends using Spot VMs over their predecessor, preemptible VMs, because they include new features that preemptible VMs do not support.

For more information, see Machine sets that deploy machines as Spot VMs.
Additional control plane machine set failure domain options for Azure:: This release includes additional configuration options for control plane machine set failure domains on Microsoft Azure.

For more information, see Sample Azure failure domain configuration.
Configuration of throughput for Amazon Web Services gp3 volumes on EBS devices:: 

This release includes support for configuring the maximum throughput for gp3 drives on EBS devices for clusters installed on Amazon Web Services (AWS).

For more information, see Configuring storage throughput for gp3 drives (Machine API) and Configuring storage throughput for gp3 drives (Cluster API).

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.21.1 and later, this feature also works with control plane machine sets.
Bare-metal nodes on VMware vSphere clusters (Technology Preview):: 

You can now add bare-metal compute machines to an existing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on vSphere. This capability enables you to migrate workloads to physical hardware without reinstalling the cluster. For instructions on adding these machines, see Adding bare-metal compute machines to a vSphere cluster.

## Monitoring


[NOTE]
----
The monitoring stack documentation is now available as a separate documentation set. The 4.21 monitoring release notes are available at Release notes for OpenShift monitoring.
----

## Networking

MetalLB Operator status reporting:: 

You can now use enhanced MetalLB Operator reporting features to view real-time operational data for IP address allocation and Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) connectivity. Previously, viewing this information required manual log inspection across multiple controllers. With this release, you can monitor your network health and resolve connectivity issues directly through the following custom resources:
* IPAddressPool: Monitor cluster-wide IP address allocation through the status field to track usage and prevent address exhaustion.
* ServiceBGPStatus: Verify which service IP addresses are announced to specific BGP peers to ensure correct route advertisements.
* BGPSessionStatus: Check the real-time state of BGP and Bidirectional Forwarding Detection sessions to quickly identify connectivity drops.

For more information, see Monitoring MetalLB configuration status.
Applying unassisted holdover for boundary clocks and time synchronous clocks:: 

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.20 introduced unassisted holdover for boundary clocks and time synchronous clocks as a Technology Preview feature. This feature is now Generally Available (GA).

For more information, see Applying unassisted holdover for boundary clocks and time slave clocks.
SR-IOV Operator supports ARM architecture:: 

The Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) Operator can now communicate with ARM hardware. You can now complete tasks such as configure network cards that are already plugged into an ARM server and use these cards in your applications. For instructions on how to search for ARM hardware that the SR-IOV Operator supports, see About Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) hardware networks.
Support for Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh version 3.2:: 

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 updates Service Mesh to version 3.2. This version update incorporates essential CVE fixes and ensures that your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform instances receive the latest fixes, features, and enhancements. See the Service Mesh 3.2 release notes for more information.
PTP Operator introduces GNSS-to-NTP failover for high-precision timing:: 

With this release, the PTP Operator introduces an active GNSS-to-NTP failover configuration to ensure time synchronization continuity in environments requiring extremely high time accuracy.

When the primary Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) signal is lost or compromised, for example because of satellite jamming, the system automatically fails over to Network Time Protocol (NTP) to maintain time accuracy. When the GNSS signal is restored, the system automatically recovers back to using GNSS as the primary time source.

This feature is particularly important in telco environments that require high precision time synchronization with built-in redundancy. To enable GNSS to NTP failover, you configure the PtpConfig resource with the ntpfailover plugin enabled and configure both chronyd and ts2phc settings.

For more information, see Configuring GNSS failover to NTP for time synchronization continuity.
Network policies for additional namespaces:: With this release, OpenShift Container Platform continues to deploy Kubernetes network policies to additional system namespaces to control ingress and egress traffic. It is anticipated that future releases might include network policies for additional system namespaces and Red Hat Operators.
Ingress network flow analysis with the commatrix plugin:: With this release, you can use the commatrix plugin to generate ingress network flow data from your cluster. You can also use the plugin to identify any differences between open ports on the host and expected ingress flows for your environment.

For more information, see Ingress network flow analysis with the commatrix plugin

Configure the dnsRecordsType parameter (Technology preview):: During cluster installation, you can specify the dnsRecordsType parameter in the install-config.yaml file to set if the internal DNS service or an external source provides the necessary records for api, api-int, and ingress DNS records. For more information about DNS requirements, see User-provisioned DNS requirements.

## Nodes

Allocating specific GPUs to pods (DRA) is now generally available:: 

Attribute-Based GPU Allocation, which allows pods to request GPUs based on specific device attributes by using a Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) driver, is now generally available. For more information, see Allocating GPUs to Pods.
The default openshift cluster image policy is now generally available:: 

The default openshift cluster image policy is now generally available and active by default. For more information, see Manage secure signatures with sigstore.

If your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.20 or earlier cluster has a cluster image policy named openshift, the upgrade to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform marks the cluster as not updatable (Upgradeable=False) because of this default openshift cluster image policy. You must remove your openshift cluster image policy to clear the Upgradeable=False condition and proceed with the update. You can optionally create your own cluster image policy with a different name before removing your openshift cluster image policy.
Support for sigstore BYOPKI is now generally available:: 

Support for using a certificate from your own public key infrastructure as a Sigstore root of trust is now generally available. For more information, see Manage secure signatures with sigstore.
Automatically calculate and apply CPU and memory resources for system components:: 

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform now automatically calculates and reserves a portion of the CPU and memory resources for use by the underlying node and system components. Previously, you needed to enable the feature by creating a KubeletConfig custom resource (CR) with the autoSizingReserved: true parameter. For clusters updated to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, you can enable the feature by deleting the 50-worker-auto-sizing-disabled machine config. After you delete the machine config, the nodes reboot with the new resource settings. If you manually configured system reserved CPU or memory resources, these settings remain upon update and do not change. For more information on this new feature, see Automatically allocating resources for nodes.
Linux PSI monitoring can now be enabled:: 

You can now enable Linux Pressure Stall Information (PSI) monitoring, which makes PSI metrics for CPU, memory, and I/O available for your cluster, by using a MachineConfig object. For more information, see Enabling Pressure Stall Information (PSI) monitoring.

## OpenShift CLI (oc)

Signature mirroring enabled by default for oc-mirror v2:: With this update, the oc-mirror v2 plugin mirrors image signatures by default. This enhancement ensures that image integrity is automatically preserved during the mirroring process without requiring additional configuration. If your environment does not require signature validation, you can manually disable this feature by using the --remove-signatures command-line flag. For more information, see Disabling signature mirroring for oc-mirror plugin v2.

## Operator development

Supported Operator base images:: 
With this release, the following base images for Operator projects are updated for compatibility with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21. The runtime functionality and configuration APIs for these base images are supported for bug fixes and for addressing CVEs.
* The base image for Ansible-based Operator projects
* The base image for Helm-based Operator projects
For more information, see Updating the base image for existing Ansible- or Helm-based Operator projects for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 and later (Red Hat Knowledgebase).

## Postinstallation configuration

Enabling hardware metrics monitoring on bare-metal clusters (Technology Preview):: 

With this update, you can enable your cluster to collect hardware metrics from the Redfish-compatible baseboard management controllers of your bare-metal nodes.
Metrics include temperature, power consumption, fan status, and drive health.
You enable this Technology Preview feature by enabling the Ironic Prometheus Exporter in your cluster as a postinstallation task.

For more information, see Hardware metrics in the Monitoring stack.

## Scalability and performance

Pod-level IRQ affinity introduces housekeeping mode:: 

For latency-sensitive workloads, you can now configure the irq-load-balancing.crio.io pod annotation to use housekeeping mode. This mode enables a subset of pinned CPUs to handle system interrupts while isolating the remaining pinned CPUs for latency-sensitive workloads. This reduces the overall CPU footprint by eliminating the need for dedicated housekeeping CPUs for IRQ handling. When you configure housekeeping mode, the first pinned CPU and its thread siblings handle interrupts for the system.

For more information, see Configuring interrupt processing for individual pods.

## Storage

Volume Attributes Classes is generally available:: 

Volume Attributes Classes provide a way for administrators to describe "classes" of storage they offer. Different classes might correspond to different quality-of-service levels. Volume Attributes Classes was introduced in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, and is now generally available in 4.21.

Volume Attributes Classes is available only with AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) persistent disk (PD) Container Storage Interface (CSI).

You can apply a Volume Attributes Classes to a persistent volume claim (PVC). If a new Volume Attributes Class becomes available in the cluster, you can update the PVC with the new Volume Attributes Classes if needed.

Volume Attributes Classes have parameters that describe volumes belonging to them. If a parameter is omitted, the default is used at volume provisioning. If a user applies the PVC with a different Volume Attributes Class with omitted parameters, the default value of the parameters might be used depending on the CSI driver implementation. For more information, see the related CSI driver documentation.

For more information, see Volume Attributes Classes.
Azure File CSI supporting snapshots feature is generally available:: 

A snapshot represents the state of the storage volume in a cluster at a particular point in time. Volume snapshots can be used to provision a new volume.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.17 introduced volume snapshot support for the Microsoft Azure File Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator as a Technology Preview feature. In 4.21, this feature is generally available. Also, Azure File snapshots now supports Network File System (NFS) in addition to Server Message Block (SMB).

For more information, see CSI drivers supported by OpenShift Container Platform and CSI volume snapshots.
Azure File CSI supporting volume cloning feature is generally available:: 

Volume cloning duplicates an existing persistent volume (PV) to help protect against data loss in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. You can also use a volume clone just as you would use any standard volume.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16 introduced volume cloning for the Microsoft Azure File Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator as a Technology Preview feature. In 4.21, this feature is generally available. Also, Azure File cloning now supports Network File System (NFS) in addition to Server Message Block (SMB).

For more information, see Azure File CSI Driver Operator and CSI volume cloning.
oVirt CSI Driver Operator is removed from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21:: 

Red Hat Virtualization (RHV) as a host platform for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform was deprecated in version 4.14 and is no longer supported. In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, the oVirt CSI Driver Operator is removed.
CIFS/SMB CSI Driver Operator supports IBM Power:: 

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, the CIFS/SMB CSI Driver Operator supports IBM Power (ppc64le).

For more information, see CIFS/SMB CSI Driver Operator.
Introduction of new field to track the status of volume resize attempts:: 

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 introduced resizing recovery that stops the expansion controller from indefinitely attempting to expand a volume to an unsupported size request. This feature allows you to recover and provide another smaller resize value for the persistent volume claim (PVC). The new value must be larger than the original volume size.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 introduces the pvc.Status.AllocatedResourceStatus field, which shows the status of volume resize attempts. If a user changes the size of their PVCs, this new field allows resource quota to be tracked accurately.

For more information about resizing volumes, see Expanding persistent volumes.

For more information about recovering when resizing volumes, see Recovering from failure when expanding volumes.
Mutable CSI node allocatable property (Technical Preview):: 

This feature allows for dynamically updating the maximum number of storage volumes a node can handle. Without this feature, volume limits are essentially immutable when a node first joins the cluster. If the environment changes—for example, if you attach a new network interface (ENI) that shares a hardware "slot" with your storage—Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform does not recognize it has fewer slots available for disks, leading to pods becoming stuck.

This feature is only supported on AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS).

Mutable CSI node allocatable property is supported in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 as a Technical Preview feature. To enable this feature, you need to enable Feature Gates.

For more information about enabling Technical Preview features, see Feature Gates.
Reducing permissions while using the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator is generally available:: 

The default installation allows the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) persistent disk (PD) Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver to impersonate any service account in the Google Cloud project. You can reduce the scope of permissions granted to the GCP PD CSI Driver service account in your Google Cloud project to only the required node service accounts.

For more information about this feature, see Reducing permissions while using the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator.
Volume group snapshots API updated (Technical Preview):: 

The API for the Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume group snapshot feature is updated from v1beta1 to v1beta2.

This feature is supported at the Technical Preview level.

For more information, see CSI volume group snapshots.
Updated release of the Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator:: 

The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator version v4.21 is now based on the upstream version v1.5.4 release of secrets-store-csi-driver.

## Web console

OLM v1 software catalog in the web console (Technology Preview):: 

With this update, you can preview the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) v1 software catalog in the web console. Select Ecosystem &#8594; Software Catalog &#8594; Operators to preview this feature. To see the OLM (Classic) software catalog, click the Enable OLM v1 (Tech Preview) toggle.

# Notable technical changes

This section includes several technical changes for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.

VMware vSphere 7 and VMware Cloud Foundation 4 end of general support:: 

Broadcom has ended general support for VMware vSphere 7 and VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) 4. If your existing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster is running on either of these platforms, you must plan to migrate or upgrade your VMware infrastructure to a supported version. Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform supports installation on vSphere 8 Update 1 or later, or VCF 5 or later.
Bare Metal Operator has read-only root filesystem by default:: 

As of this update, the Bare Metal Operator has the readOnlyRootFilesystem security context setting enabled to meet common hardening recommendations.
MachineSets advertise node architecture for autoscaling:: 

With this update, MachineSets advertise the architecture of their nodes, which allows the autoscaler to intelligently scale MachineSets in multi-architecture environments.
Dynamic Resource Allocation plugin is disabled in the NUMA-aware scheduler:: 

With this update, the Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) is disabled so that the secondary scheduler, managed by numaresources operator, does not need to handle DRA resources. The Kubernetes project has recently enabled DRA by default, setting specific expectations on the scheduler-plugins project to support watching DRA resources. As a result, the OpenShift topology-aware scheduler (TAS) disables DRA plugin in its profile, and therefore ignores DRA-related custom resources (CRs) when making scheduling decisions.

# Deprecated and removed features

## Images deprecated and removed features



## Installation deprecated and removed features



## Machine Management deprecated and removed features



## Networking deprecated and removed features



## Node deprecated and removed features



## OpenShift CLI (oc) deprecated and removed features



## Operator lifecycle and development deprecated and removed features



## Storage deprecated and removed features



## Web console deprecated and removed features



## Workloads deprecated and removed features



# Deprecated features

Deprecation of Fujitsu Integrated Remote Management Controller (iRMC) driver for bare-metal machines:: 

As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, support for the Fujitsu iRMC baseboard management controller (BMC) driver has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
If a BareMetalHost resource contains a BMC address with irmc:// as its URI scheme, the resource must be updated to use another BMC scheme, such as redfish:// or ipmi://.
Once support for this driver is removed, hosts that use irmc:// URI schemes will become unmanageable.

For information about updating the BareMetalHost resource, see Editing a BareMetalHost resource.

# Removed features

This section includes removed features for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.

Swap memory support has been removed:: 

The ability to configure swap memory is no longer available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform because using swap memory can prevent a node from properly safeguarding itself from failures.

# Fixed issues

The following issues are fixed for this release:

## Installer

* Before this update, the vSphere platform configuration lacked a validation check to prevent the simultaneous definition of both a custom virtual machine template and a clusterOSImage parameter. As a consequence, users could provide both parameters in the installation configuration, leading to ambiguity and potential deployment failures. With this release, the vSphere validation logic has been updated to ensure that template and clusterOSImage parameters are treated as mutually exclusive, returning a specific error message if both fields are populated. (OCPBUGS-63584)
* Before this update, a race condition occurred when multiple reconciliation loops or concurrent processes attempted to add a virtual machine (VM) to a vSphere Host Group simultaneously due to the provider lacking a check to see if the VM was already a member. Consequently, the vSphere API could return errors during the cluster reconfiguration task, leading to reconciliation failures and preventing the VM from being correctly associated with its designated zone or host group. With this release, the zonal logic has been updated to verify the VM's membership within the target host group before initiating a reconfiguration task, ensuring the operation is only performed if the VM is not already present. (OCPBUGS-60765)

## Kube Controller Manager

* Before this update, relatedObjects in the ClusterOperator Custom Resource object omitted the ClusterRoleBinding object, resulting in incomplete debugging information. With this release, the related objects for ClusterOperator are expanded to include ClusterRoleBinding. As a result, the kube-controller-manager ClusterRoleBinding is included in the ClusterOperator output. (OCPBUGS-65502)

## Kube Scheduler

* Before this update, the ClusterOperator object failed to reference ClusterRoleBinding in the relatedObjects array, and caused the Kube-scheduler ClusterRoleBinding to be omitted in the ClusterOperator output. As a consequence, debugging difficulties occurred. With this release, the ClusterRoleBinding for the kube-scheduler Operator is added to the ClusterOperator relatedObjects. (OCPBUGS-65503)

## Networking

* Before this update, an incorrect private key containing certificate data caused HAProxy reload failure in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14. As a consequence, incorrect certificate configuration caused HAProxy router pods to fail reloads, which led to a partial outage. With this release, haproxy now validates certificates. As a result, router reload failures with invalid certificates are prevented. (OCPBUGS-49769)
* To maintain compatibility with Kubernetes 1.34, CoreDNS has been updated to version 1.13.1. This update resolves intermittent DNS resolution issues reported in previous versions and includes upstream performance fixes and security patches.

## Clock state metrics degrade correctly after upstream clock loss

* Previously, when the upstream clock connection was lost and the clock entered the unlocked state, the ptp4l and ts2phc clock state metrics did not degrade as expected. This behavior caused inconsistent time synchronization state reporting. This issue has been fixed. When the upstream clock connection is lost, the ptp4l and ts2phc clock state metrics now degrade correctly, providing consistent time synchronization state reporting.

## Node Tuning Operator

* Before this update, the Performance Profile Creator tool failed to analyze a must-gather archive if the archive contained a custom namespace directory ending with the suffix nodes. With this release, the PPC now correctly excludes the namespaces directory when processing the must-gather data to create a suggested PerformanceProfile. (OCPBUGS-60218)

## OpenShift API Server

* Before this update, there was an incorrect error field path for hostUsers when validating a security context constraint. It was shown as .spec.securityContext.hostUsers, but hostUsers is not in the security context. With this release, the error field path is now .spec.hostUsers. (OCPBUGS-65727)

# Technology Preview features status

Some features in this release are currently in Technology Preview. These experimental features are not intended for production use. Note the following scope of support on the Red&#160;Hat Customer Portal for these features:

Technology Preview Features Support Scope

In the following tables, features are marked with the following statuses:

* Not Available
* Technology Preview
* General Availability
* Deprecated
* Removed

## Authentication and authorization Technology Preview features



## Edge computing Technology Preview features



## Extensions Technology Preview features



## Installation Technology Preview features



## Machine Config Operator Technology Preview features



## Machine management Technology Preview features



## Multi-Architecture Technology Preview features



## Networking Technology Preview features



## Node Technology Preview features



## OpenShift CLI (oc) Technology Preview features



## Operator lifecycle and development Technology Preview features



## Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) Technology Preview features



## Scalability and performance Technology Preview features



## Storage Technology Preview features



## Web console Technology Preview features



# Known issues

This section includes several known issues for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.

* Currently, due to a known issue, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 versions of the Cluster Resource Override Operator and the DPU Operator will be available in an upcoming 4.21 maintenance release.  (OCPBUGS-74224)
* If you mirrored the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release images to the registry of a disconnected environment by using the oc adm release mirror command, the release image Sigstore signature is not mirrored with the image.

This has become an issue in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, because the openshift cluster image policy is now deployed to the cluster by default. This policy causes CRI-O to automatically verify the Sigstore signature when pulling images into a cluster.  (OCPBUGS-70297)

With the absence of the Sigstore signature, after updating to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 on a disconnected environment, future Cluster Version Operator pods might fail to run. You can avoid this problem by installing the oc-mirror plugin v2 and using the oc mirror command to mirror the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image. The oc-mirror plugin v2 mirrors both the release image and its Sigstore signature from your mirror registry to your disconnected environment.

If you cannot use the oc-mirror plugin v2, you can use the oc image mirror command to mirror the Sigstore signature into your mirror registry by using a command similar to the following:

```terminal
$ oc image mirror "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:${RELEASE_DIGEST}.sig" "${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/${LOCAL_RELEASE_IMAGES_REPOSITORY}:${RELEASE_DIGEST}.sig"
```

where:
RELEASE_DIGEST:: Specifies your digest image with the : character replaced by a - character. For example: sha256:884e1ff5effeaa04467fab9725900e7f0ed1daa89a7734644f14783014cebdee becomes sha256-884e1ff5effeaa04467fab9725900e7f0ed1daa89a7734644f14783014cebdee.sig.

For information on the oc-mirror v2 plugin, see Mirroring images for a disconnected installation by using the oc-mirror plugin v2.
* Starting with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, a decrease exists in the default maximum open files soft limit for containers. As a consequence, end users might experience application failures. To work around this issue, increase the container runtimes (CRI-O) ulimit configuration by using a method of your choice, such as the ulimit command. Note that if you upgrade your cluster from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.20 to 4.21, the existing maximum open files limit is retained. (OCPBUGS-62095)
* Currently, on clusters with SR-IOV network virtual functions configured, a race condition might occur between system services responsible for network device renaming and the TuneD service managed by the Node Tuning Operator. As a consequence, the TuneD profile might become degraded after the node restarts, leading to performance degradation. As a workaround, restart the TuneD pod to restore the profile state. (OCPBUGS-41934)
* Currently, pods that use a guaranteed QoS class and request whole CPUs might not restart automatically after a node reboot or kubelet restart. The issue might occur in nodes configured with a static CPU Manager policy and using the full-pcpus-only specification, and when most or all CPUs on the node are already allocated by such workloads. As a workaround, manually delete and re-create the affected pods. (OCPBUGS-43280)
* On systems using specific AMD EPYC processors, some low-level system interrupts, for example AMD-Vi, might contain CPUs in the CPU mask that overlaps with CPU-pinned workloads. This behavior is because of the hardware design. These specific error-reporting interrupts are generally inactive and there is currently no known performance impact.(OCPBUGS-57787)
* While Day 2 firmware updates and BIOS attribute reconfiguration for bare-metal hosts are generally available with this release, the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) does not provide a native mechanism to cancel a firmware update request once initiated. If a firmware update or setting change for HostFirmwareComponents or HostFirmwareSettings resources fails, returns an error, or becomes indefinitely stuck, you can try to recover by using the following steps:
* Removing the changes to the HostFirmwareComponents and HostFirmwareSettings resources.
* Setting the node to online: false to trigger a reboot.
* If the issue persists, deleting the Ironic pod.

A native abort capability for servicing operations might be planned for a future release.
* There is a known issue with the ability to configure the maximum throughput of gp3 storage volumes in an AWS cluster.
This feature does not work with control plane machine sets.
There is no workaround for this issue, but it is fixed in 4.21.1. (OCPBUGS-74478)
* When installing a private cluster on Google Cloud behind a proxy with user-provisioned DNS, you might encounter installation errors indicating the bootstrap failed to complete or the cluster initialization failed.
In both cases, the installation can succeed, resulting in a healthy cluster.
As a workaround, install the private cluster on a bastion host that is within the same virtual private cloud (VPC) as the cluster to be deployed. (OCPBUGS-54901)

# Asynchronous errata updates

Security, bug fix, and enhancement updates for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 are released as asynchronous errata through the Red&#160;Hat Network. All Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 errata is available on the Red Hat Customer Portal. See the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle for more information about asynchronous errata.
Red&#160;Hat Customer Portal users can enable errata notifications in the account settings for Red&#160;Hat Subscription Management (RHSM). When errata notifications are enabled, users are notified through email whenever new errata relevant to their registered systems are released.


[NOTE]
----
Red Hat Customer Portal user accounts must have systems registered and consuming Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform entitlements for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform errata notification emails to generate.
----

This section will continue to be updated over time to provide notes on enhancements and bug fixes for future asynchronous errata releases of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21. Versioned asynchronous releases, for example with the form Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.z, will be detailed in subsections. In addition, releases in which the errata text cannot fit in the space provided by the advisory will be detailed in subsections that follow.


[IMPORTANT]
----
For any Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release, always review the instructions on updating your cluster properly.
----

## RHSA-2026:7245 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.10 fixed issues and security update

Issued: 14 April 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.10 is now available. The list of fixed issues that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2026:7245 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:7240 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.10 --pullspecs
```


### Fixed issues

* Before this update, navigating from a dynamic plugin's tab on one resource detail page to another plugin tab on a different detail page caused the web console to display an error and become unresponsive. This affected plugins that added horizontal navigation tabs to resource detail pages, such as virtual machines, PersistentVolumeClaims, or storage classes. With this update, the web console correctly loads plugin tab components during navigation. As a result, navigation between dynamic plugin tabs on different resource detail pages works as expected.(OCPBUGS-77246)
* Before this update, when a new node joined a cluster, the synchronization process was delayed because the system only checked for updates periodically. As a consequence, the synchronization is delayed for up to 15 minutes. With this update, the global-pull-secret-syncer tool is triggered the moment the cluster's management layer identifies the new node. As a result, the synchronization process begins as soon as the node is ready, significantly reducing the wait time. (OCPBUGS-77966)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHBA-2026:6561 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.9 fixed issues advisory

Issued: 08 April 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.9 is now available. The list of fixed issues that are included in the update is documented in the RHBA-2026:6561 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:6557 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.9 --pullspecs
```


### Fixed issues

* Before this update, if you specified using a managed Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) Load Balancer, the validation failed when the virtual IP (VIP) was in the MachineNetwork allocation pool. With this release, the validation does not fail when you specify using a managed RHOSP Load Balancer. (OCPBUGS-64603)
* Before this update, the spec.externallyProvisioned field could not be changed after a bare-metal host (BMH) was created. As a consequence, hosts that needed hardware inspection before being handed off to an external provisioner (such as the image-based installer for O-RAN deployments) could not follow the required workflow (inspect first with the`externallyProvisioned`field set to false, then switch to the externallyProvisioned field set to true). With this update, the validating webhook permits changing the value of the spec.externallyProvisioned parameter from false to true when the host is in the Available state (that is, after the inspection has completed). As a result, workflows are enabled where the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) performs hardware inspection to gather CPU, memory, disk, and NIC details, and then an external tool handles provisioning. Changing the value from true to false is still blocked, and enabling the field in any state other than Available is also rejected. (OCPBUGS-65683)
* Before this update, the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) installation flow incorrectly displayed Google Cloud-specific variables for Operators, such as the Kiali Operator, that did not have the token-auth-gcp:true annotation. As a consequence, you were prompted to provide unnecessary Google Cloud Workload Identity parameters during Operator installation, which caused confusion and potential misconfiguration. With this release, the console installation logic correctly respects the absence of the token-auth-gcp annotation and suppresses the Google Cloud-specific configuration fields accordingly. As a result, the installation flow correctly identifies when the Google Cloud-specific authentication is not required, which provides a streamlined and accurate setup experience. (OCPBUGS-77000) and (OCPBUGS-77013)
* Before this update, the egress IP address was incorrectly assigned to the br-ex bridge when you configured additional interfaces. This issue caused egress IP address assignment conflicts and routing issues with unexpected traffic paths. With this release, the egress IP address is not assigned to the br-ex bridge. As a result, the egress IP address is correctly assigned to the secondary interface, which resolves routing conflicts. (OCPBUGS-77257)
* Before this update, when you used an outdated version of the`vpc-go-sdk` parameter that could not process any Security Group (SG) Rules prevented the Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) from creating new machines. As a consequence, older IBM Cloud SDK versions that could not process SG Rules with the 'any' protocol caused new machines to get stuck during provisioning. With this release, the IBM Cloud vpc-go-sdk parameter is updated to handle the 'any' protocol in SG Rules. As a result, new machines can be created in IBM Cloud because they do not get stuck during provisioning. (OCPBUGS-77445)
* Before this update, after you killed the cloud-event-process process on the sidecar of the linuxptp-daemon pod with the boundary clock (BC) configuration, the clock class was missing. As a consequence, you could not recover the clock class unless you restarted the linuxptp-daemon pod. With this release, the clock class can be recovered quickly after you restart the cloud-event-process process. (OCPBUGS-77871)
* Before this update, when you created snapshots of large Microsoft Azure UltraSSD_LRS or PremiumV2_LRS persistent volumes, the snapshots might have failed because of a hard-coded 10-minute timeout in the CSI driver. This timeout was insufficient for the Azure background copy process on large disks. With this release, the Azure Disk CSI driver supports instant access snapshots, which are configurable in the instantAccessDurationMinutes parameter (60-300 minutes) in the VolumeSnapshotClass parameter. As a result, snapshots on large volumes are successfully created. (OCPBUGS-78012)
* Before this update, DNS name rules in the EgressFirewall custom resource (CR) were not working correctly when an error was encountered during DNS name resolution or a zero TTL value was returned by the DNS name server. For both scenarios, the next lookup occurred only after 30 minutes. However, these scenarios could be transient and might have gotten resolved well before the next lookup. With this release, the lookup occurs every five seconds when an error is encountered during DNS name resolution or a zero TTL value is returned by the DNS name server. When an error is encountered during the DNS lookup, the lookup occurs with an exponential backoff after 10 retries, with the maximum backoff time capped at two minutes. (OCPBUGS-78094)
* Before this update, nodes with dynamic system reserved allocation enabled, including all workers installed in 4.21 and later, could not scale down if the node only had 8 GiB of memory, the documented minimum supported worker size for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. With this release, the memory reservation scaling reserves only 1 GiB of the first 8 GiB, 6% of the next 120 GiB, and 2% of all remaining memory. As a result, nodes as small as 8 GiB are properly removed through autoscaling. (OCPBUGS-78201)
* Before this update, the pagination state persisted incorrectly when switching namespaces. As a consequence, empty tables were displayed. With this release, the pagination resets to page 1 when switching namespaces while keeping the items-per-page preference. (OCPBUGS-78599)
* Before this update, an invalid namespace on the Search page was being passed through to each resource list component when All Projects was selected from the project selector. As a consequence, each list component displayed a 404 error. With this release, the Search page is updated so that it no longer passes a namespace through to these components when All Project is selected in the project selector. As a result, the list components do not display a 404 error. (OCPBUGS-78799)
* Before this update, Baremetal Operator's virtual media baseboard management controller (BMC) drivers required the bootMACAddress parameter for inspection, making it impossible to perform automatic MAC discovery. As a consequence, you were required to manually specify MAC addresses to inspect a bare-metal host (BMH) configured with virtual media based provisioning. With this release, the virtual media BMC drivers make the bootMACAddress parameter optional for hardware inspection. As a result, virtual media BMC BMHs can now be successfully created and inspected without requiring the bootMACAddress parameter, making it possible to discover MAC addresses automatically (for example, for use with O-Cloud Manager). Note that the bootMACAddress parameter is still required in install-config, installer-provisioned infrastructure installations and assisted-installer installations. (OCPBUGS-78835)
* Before this update, when you clicked the Import to console action on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Lightspeed YAML code block which was generated as part of the AI response, the action correctly redirected to the YAML import page, but the editor was not pre-populated with the YAML code block. With this release, the code block is correctly populated. (OCPBUGS-79035)
* Before this update, the Catalog Operator pod failed during the single-node OpenShift cluster install. With this release, the nil pointer dereference in the sortUnpackJobs parameter when sorting non-failed jobs is fixed. As a result, the Catalog Operator pod does not fail during the cluster install. (OCPBUGS-79400)
* Before this update, the keyboard shortcut navigation on the Name text filter was removed as part of the table update. With this release, the keyboard shortcut is restored. (OCPBUGS-79533)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHBA-2026:5926 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.8 fixed issues advisory

Issued: 31 March 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.8 is now available. The list of fixed issues that are included in the update is documented in the RHBA-2026:5926 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:5920 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.8 --pullspecs
```


### Enhancements

* With this update, support for the kubevirt-csi-driver on non-hosted control plane nested clusters using OpenShift Virtualization Virtual Machines (VMs) has been added through manual mapping annotations. The new manual mapping annotations are:
* csi.kubevirt.io/infra-vm-name - the VirtualMachine name on the infra cluster representing the nested cluster's node
* csi.kubevirt.io/infra-vm-namespace - the namespace name on the infra cluster that the VMs (representing the nested cluster's nodes) are running at

(OCPBUGS-79038)

### Known issues

* On certain Telecom Grandmaster (T-GM) systems, an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform node reboot can trigger a change in the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) device name. This prevents the T-GM from achieving a locked state because the configuration points to a static, stale device path. To workaround this problem, omit the ts2phc.nmea_serialport setting from the ts2phcConf section of the PtpConfig resource. (OCPBUGS-77750)

### Fixed issues

* Before this update, secrets containing a mix of text and binary values would trigger a runtime error in the edit form because the stringData initialization logic returned null when encountering any binary data. With this release, the system has been updated to skip binary fields during stringData initialization while preserving text fields. This ensures that mixed-type secrets can now be edited seamlessly without causing application crashes. (OCPBUGS-77251)
* Before this update, Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS Hosted Control Plane (HCP) would continuously attempt to retag Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes during creation and resync events even if the correct tags were already present, leading to UnauthorizedOperation errors in CloudWatch due to insufficient permissions for modifying existing volumes. With this release, the EBSVolumeTagsController has been updated to implement idempotent tagging logic to verify the current state of existing volumes. If a provisioned volume's tags already match the target state, the controller skips the update step. (OCPBUGS-78115)
* Before this update, the 60-minute timeout for cluster-managed networking on bare-metal hardware was insufficient, causing control plane nodes to fail joining the bootstrap node and leading to installation failures. With this release, the timeout has been increased from 60 minutes to 90 minutes, improving installation reliability for bare-metal installations. (OCPBUGS-78241)
* Before this update, the use of deprecated Kubernetes APIs generated significant unnecessary log noise within Prometheus, cluttering monitoring dashboards with redundant warnings. With this release, these deprecated API calls have been mitigated to reduce the log output to only one error. (OCPBUGS-78581)
* Before this update, the cluster autoscaler processed paused node groups as if they were active, which could lead to the wrong nodes being deleted. With this release, the cluster autoscaler identifies paused node groups and does not act upon them, preventing incorrect node deletion. (OCPBUGS-78684)
* Before this update, the Cloud Controller Manager (CCM) attempted to create a Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) LoadBalancer client regardless of whether the Octavia service was enabled on the openstack cloud, causing CCM pods to crash with Failed to create an OpenStack LoadBalancer client during the OpenStack installer-provisioned infrastructure cluster installation and leading to a deployment failure. With this release, the CCM properly handles OpenStack clusters without the Octavia service enabled, allowing deployments to succeed. (OCPBUGS-78696)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2026:5174 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.7 fixed issues advisory

Issued: 24 March 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.7 is now available. The list of fixed issues that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2026:5174 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:5147 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.7 --pullspecs
```


### Fixed issues

* Before this update, pagination titles in the console UI were not marked for translation when the user interface language was set to non-English. As a consequence, the user interface text remained in English, causing confusion for non-English users. With this release, pagination titles are marked for translation in the DataView object. As a result, pagination titles support translation, improving user experience in non-English OCP consoles. (OCPBUGS-76387)
* Before this release, creating a hosted cluster with a node port publishing strategy, specifying a port outside the Kubernetes ServiceNodePortRange was silently accepted during cluster creation. As a consequence, the cluster installation was stuck with three pods and in the hosted cluster namespace. With this release, a fix added an early validation for NodePort.Port against the cluster's configured ServiceNodePortRange, rejecting invalid values with a clear error message indicating the allowed range. As a result, users receive an immediate validation error when specifying a node port outside the acceptable range, preventing stuck cluster installations. (OCPBUGS-77456)
* Before this update, the icon was not displayed in the Status column due to missing icon rendering in specific plugin statuses. This affected the user's ability to visually identify plugin status. With this release, the icon is added to the Status column for loaded, pending, and failed plugin states. As a result, the icon is now displayed in the Status column for all plugins, enhancing the visual experience. (OCPBUGS-77561)
* Before this update, the hosted control planes Operator created Agent pods with insufficient memory limits, causing crashes on large clusters. As a consequence, the Agent CAPI-provider pod crashed due to insufficient memory limits on big clusters. With this release, memory limits for the Agent CAPI provider in the hosted control planes Operator are increased. As a result, Agent pods do not crash due to memory limits, improving cluster stability. (OCPBUGS-77647)
* Before this update, the etcd Operator randomly removed control plane nodes, causing duplication and potential cluster downtime. As a consequence, user experience was disrupted, leading to a potential loss of control plane nodes in the etcd cluster. With this release, the etcd Operator prioritizes removing members in the same failure domain index, reducing potential duplication and improving cluster stability. As a result, the etcd Operator ensures the control plane remains stable with three nodes, preventing potential service disruptions. (OCPBUGS-77921)
* Before this update, an ordering issue in the hosted cluster controller's reconcile loop caused a deadlock during z-stream updates, stalling cluster provisioning and causing Azure Red Hat OpenShift hosted control planes to fail. With this release, the deadlock during initial provisioning is resolved by updating Control Plane Operator (CPO) deployment before secret fetching. As a result, seamless cluster creation is enabled. (OCPBUGS-78473)
* Before this update, the catalog image version cap in images.go prevented the use of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 images. As a consequence, hosted clusters on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 and later were using Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.20 catalog images, causing compatibility issues. With this release, the catalog image version cap is updated to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 in support/catalogs/images.go. As a result, hosted clusters on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 and later use Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 catalog images, improving compatibility and functionality. (OCPBUGS-78484)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHBA-2026:4420 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.6 fixed issues

Issued: 17 March 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.6 is now available. The list of fixed issues that are included in the update is documented in the RHBA-2026:4420 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:4416 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.6 --pullspecs
```


### New features

* KMS v2 support for etcd encryption (Technology Preview)

You can now use the Kubernetes KMS v2 interface to encrypt etcd data, including secrets, config maps, and OAuth tokens, using keys managed by an external Key Management Service (KMS). This Technology Preview release integrates with the HashiCorp Vault KMS plugin to offload encryption key storage and lifecycle management to an external Vault instance. This is a Technology Preview feature.

For more information about Technology Preview feature support, see Technology Preview Features - Scope of Support.

### Known issues

* In some Microsoft Azure configurations (Azure private, public Azure Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, and private Azure Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform), outbound connectivity is achieved through outbound rules that are connected to the backend address pool of the primary IP address of the VM network interface controller (NIC). Before this update, the Egress IP address was added to the public load balancer backend address pool when an OutBoundRule parameter was not specified. The Egress IP addresses are no longer added to the public load balancer backend pool for any Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster hosted on Azure, regardless of the existence of an OutBoundRule parameter. As a result, Egress IP addresses will have no outbound connectivity except for the infrastructure subnet in an Azure Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. (OCPBUGS-77154)

### Fixed issues

* Before this update, the minimal collection profile did not include the kube_pod_labels metric. As a consequence, the status for the control plane was displayed as unknown on the web console. With this release, the kube_pod_labels metric is included. As a result, the displayed status for the control plane is correct. (OCPBUGS-74425)
* Before this update, the IngressControllerDynamicConfigurationManager feature gate was temporarily removed from the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set while a critical defect was being resolved. As a consequence, the dynamic configuration manager feature of the router was not available even as a TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature. With this release, the IngressControllerDynamicConfigurationManager feature gate is added back to the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set. As a result, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform router includes the dynamic configuration manager option on clusters that enable the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set. (OCPBUGS-76408)
* Before this update, control plane nodes with a root partition larger than 300 GB caused a boot failure of the nodes and stopped the cluster installation. With this release, the boot failure does not occur and the cluster installation is not stopped. (OCPBUGS-77536)
* Before this update, the tmpfs volume that stored the ostree image on the bootstrap node was too small to contain the entire image for the ppc64le architecture. With this release, the tmpfs size is increased to support the ppc64le architecture.  (OCPBUGS-77551)
* Before this update, faulty vCenter matching logic caused boot image update failures in multi center vSphere clusters. As a consequence, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) degraded when boot image updates were enabled for this scenario. With this update, the matching vCenter logic is fixed. As a result, boot image updates work as expected in 4.21 for multi center vSphere clusters. (OCPBUGS-77577)
* Before this update, NetworkPolicy egress rules hard-coded port 6443 for Kube API Server access. Because hosted control planes allows custom API server ports through the hostedcluster.spec.networking.apiServer.port parameter, Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) Operators failed to communicate with the Kube API Server in the hosted clusters, which used non-default API ports. As a consequence, the Operator functionality and catalog operations were broken. With this release, the hard-coded port 6443 is replaced with wildcard egress (egress: [{}]) for the Kube API Server traffic. Explicit DNS rules (ports 53, 5353) are also added for documentation and future policy refinements. As a result, OLM supports hosted control planes deployments with any configured API server port.  (OCPBUGS-77580)
* Before this update, NetworkPolicy egress rules in Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) Classic hard-coded port 6443 for Kube API Server access across static manifests and generated policies. Because hosted control planes allows custom API server ports that differ from 6443, OLM (Classic) components (olm-operator, catalog-operator, and packageserver) did not communicate with the Kube API Server in hosted clusters that used custom API ports. As a consequence, this issue prevented Operator installation and catalog operations. With this release, NetworkPolicy egress rules are updated to use a wildcard (egress: [{}]) for Kube API Server traffic in both static manifests and dynamic policy generation code. Explicit DNS rules (ports 53, 5353) are also added for future policy refinements. As a result, OLM (Classic) supports hosted control planes deployments with any configured API server port. (OCPBUGS-77712)
* Before this update, the olm cluster Operator did not detect version changes during cluster upgrades. As a consequence, the Operator failed to report the Progressing=True status during upgrades, which prevented accurate upgrade monitoring. With this release, a new version detection logic compares the release version with the stored Operator version and sets the Progressing=True status when an upgrade is detected. As a result, the Operator correctly reports the Progressing status during upgrades, which improves upgrade observability. (OCPBUGS-77826)
* Before this update, when you clicked the Add access button on the Project access tab on the Project details page while in the Developer perspective, the Save button was disabled and a potential error occurred. With this release, the Project access tab works as expected. (OCPBUGS-77882)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHBA-2026:3881 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.5 fixed issues

Issued: 10 March 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.5 is now available. The list of fixed issues that are included in the update is documented in the RHBA-2026:3881 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:3858 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.5 --pullspecs
```


### Fixed issues

The following issues are fixed for this release:

* Before this update, multiple KubeletConfig ConfigMaps were associated with a NodePool upon update. As a consequence, NodePool update failed and multiple ConfigMaps were stuck in the Updating state. With this release, single ConfigMap association for NodePool updates are implemented, eliminating multiple ConfigMap errors. As a result, updating a NodePool references only a single ConfigMap, resolving the stuck Updating state issue and eliminating stale ConfigMaps. (OCPBUGS-62496)
* Before this update, the upgrade from 4.18.26 to 4.19 created an unassigned loadbalancer service, blocking the upgrade process. As a consequence, service creation blockage during upgrade caused it to fail. With this release, loadbalancer service IP assignment is fixed during upgrade. As a result, loadbalancer service no longer blocks upgrades in HCP clusters, enabling smooth upgrade process. (OCPBUGS-75930)
* Before this update, oc-mirror v2 failed in containerized environments because of user ID lookup failure in the registriesd module. As a consequence, users experienced failure in containerized environments during the signature preparation phase due to unknown user IDs. With this release, oc-mirror works in containerized environments with dynamic UIDs. As a result, oc-mirror v2 in containerized environments such as OpenShift CI, no longer fails due to the unknown userid error, improving its compatibility and reliability. (OCPBUGS-77222)
* Before this update, a regression introduced in version Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15 impacted the AlertingRule logic, leading to inaccurate processing of alert definitions. This regression caused the system to generate duplicate alerts for the same event, causing it to misinterpret alert definitions and cluttered monitoring dashboards. With this release, the underlying regression is resolved, restoring the intended behavior and logic to the AlertingRule component. (OCPBUGS-77271)
* Before this update, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) failed to log in to vCenter during installation, which resulted in the vSphere credentials being erroneously recorded as part of the login error message. With this release, the error message is updated to exclude sensitive details, ensuring that the MCO no longer logs credentials on login failure. (OCPBUGS-77354)
* Before this update, frequent ignition-server pod updates led to continuous restarts due to changes in deployment and container image. As a consequence, ignition-server pods frequently restarted, causing service instability for you. With this release, the ignition-server pod does not flap and restart due to hypershift-controlplane-manager updates. As a result, ignition-server pod restarts are reduced, improving service stability. (OCPBUGS-77365)
* Before this update, the mutual TLS configuration on the default IngressController caused canary and console health checks to fail, degrading Ingress and Console Operators due to required client certificates. As a consequence, Ingress and console Operators degraded. With this release, the IngressController mTLS setup no longer breaks canary and console health checks. As a result, the mTLS setup no longer causes instability in the cluster, ensuring proper operation of Ingress and Console Operators. (OCPBUGS-77432)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2026:3402 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.4 image release, fixed issues, and security update

Issued: 03 March 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.4 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2026:3402 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:3400 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.4 --pullspecs
```


### Fixed issues

The following issues are fixed for this release:

* Before this update, when the PTP Operator monitored the digital phase-locked loop (DPLL) offset, and the DPLL reached a steady state, the offset value could be temporarily below the threshold to be considered locked because of the high variability of the offset. As a consequence, the PTP boundary clock (T-BC) would announce its clock class before the ptp4l program and the DPLL reached a locked state. With this release, clock class decisions are started only after a minimum number of samples. As a result, the clock class is announced after the DPLL is stabilized. (OCPBUGS-73795)
* Before this update, the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) firmware lacked a structured error response for UserName and Password parameters, which caused the BMC to reject ISO mounting during NVIDIA Deep GPU Xceleration (DGX) B200 node provisioning. As a consequence, automated provisioning failed. With this release, the firmware handling of credentials is updated, which adds handling for missing UserName and Password parameters in the Redfish InsertMedia response. As a result, Bare Metal Operator (BMO) and Ironic mounting failures are resolved and automated provisioning of NVIDIA DGX B200 nodes is enabled. (OCPBUGS-74404)
* Before this update, the user workload Prometheus Operator did not validate the webhookURL secret reference in the MSTeams receiver configuration of the AlertmanagerConfig custom resource. As a consequence, an invalid or missing webhookURL secret could be accepted, causing the user workload Alertmanager to crash at runtime. With this update, the user workload Prometheus Operator validates the webhookURL secret for MSTeams receivers, rejecting invalid configurations before the configurations can affect the Alertmanager. (OCPBUGS-74477)
* Before this update, a race condition which was caused by concurrent map writes on the vpa.Conditions parameter within the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) recommender led to the crashing of VPA pods and caused resource scaling instability within the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. With this release, the VPA recommender ensures thread-safe access to race conditions. As a result, the concurrent map write error in the vpa-recommender parameter is resolved and VPA pod crashes are prevented. (OCPBUGS-76296)
* Before this update, the UnmanagedRoutes alert incorrectly fired for a correctly managed ingress resource that owned a route, if another unmanaged ingress resource with the same name was on another namespace. This issue occurred even if the second ingress resource did not own a route resource. With this release, the controller correctly identifies those ingress resources with conflicting names. As a result, an alert only fires if an ingress owns a route, and is not managed, even when there are ingress resources with the same name. (OCPBUGS-76641)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2026:2984 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.3 fixed issues and security update

Issued: 24 February 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.3 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2026:2984 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:2982 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.3 --pullspecs
```


### Known issues

This release contains the following known issue:

* When attempting a simultaneous BIOS and Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) firmware update on a Dell R740, the BMC update might fail, leaving the server powered down and unresponsive. This issue occurs when the update process does not complete successfully, causing the system to remain in a non-operational state. (OCPBUGS-62009)

### Fixed issues

The following issues are fixed for this release:

* Before this update, the Machine API Provider OpenStack (MAPO) created an event for every single reconcile, even when no significant state changes such as a create, update, or delete had occurred. This event generation led to cluttered event logs, strained system performance, and frequently disrupted monitoring and alerting systems. With this release, the reconcile function is modified to capture the original ResourceVersion and only emit an event when the machine ResourceVersion changes. Additionally, the event name was changed from Reconciled to Updated to better align with other machine API providers. (OCPBUGS-69644)
* Before this update, when a HostedCluster using external Domain Name Service (DNS) domains was updated to remove an allowedCIDRBlocks configuration, the external router LoadBalancer service was not updated to reflect this change. This resulted in external clients being able to access the kube-apiserver service from any IP address, bypassing the configured Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) restrictions. With this release, the LoadBalancerSourceRanges configuration is not removed from the external kube-apiserver service when the  allowedCIDRBlocks configuration is removed from the HostedCluster resource, ensuring consistent security across both internal and external traffic. (OCPBUGS-71133)
* Before this update, catalogs rebuilt by the oc-mirror plugin were only in Open Container Initiative (OCI) format, which created compatibility issues because certain container registries did not accept this specific format. This often resulted in failed image uploads or registry errors during the mirroring process. With this release, the code is updated to allow for the conversion of the catalog format to one that is accepted by the target container registry. As a result, the conversion of catalog images generated by the oc-mirror plugin no longer fail. (OCPBUGS-74981)
* Before this update, the system failed to correctly parse registry configuration files when the use-sigstore-attachments parameter was explicitly set to false. These files were misinterpreted as uninitialized. This meant that the oc-mirror plugin would ignore the existing user-defined setup and generate a new configuration file. With this release, the code is fixed to recognize an explicit false value as a valid user configuration. As a result, the oc-mirror plugin now properly adheres to the existing user-defined settings, preventing unnecessary file overwrites and ensuring that signature attachment preferences are preserved. (OCPBUGS-76126)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHBA-2026:2637 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.2 fixed issues

Issued: 17 February 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.2 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHBA-2026:2637 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2026:2630 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.2 --pullspecs
```


### Enhancements

This release contains the following enhancements:

* With this update, the application addresses a denial of service vulnerability in the Logrus library, specifically when handling large single-line payloads without newline characters. The new feature ensures that the Logrus library, when used in our application, does not fail to process large input data because of the token too long error. By implementing this fix, applications using Logrus do not experience unavailability due to this issue. This improvement is available in Logrus versions 1.8.3, 1.9.1, and 1.9.3 and later. (OCPBUGS-74282)

### Fixed issues

The following issues are fixed for this release:

* Before this update, the cluster-node-tuning-operator object used a hard-coded client certificate authority source that failed on HyperShift. As a consequence, the cluster-node-tuning-operator pod failed to listen on the 60000 port. With this release, the cluster-node-tuning-operator object listens on the 60000 port and the inactive target is resolved. (OCPBUGS-55399)
* Before this update, kubevirt object virtual machine (VM) eviction strategy was not set to external during a node drain process. With this release, the eviction strategy for kubevirt VMs is customizable. As a result, kubevirt VMs in hosted control planes correctly use the specified eviction strategy, ensuring smooth node draining during infrastructure cluster upgrades. (OCPBUGS-58397)
* Before this update, the agent did not compare the physical and usable RAM sizes correctly on certain virtual machines (VM), causing discrepancies. With this release, the incorrect RAM size calculation on certain VMs is fixed and uses a consistent method for all cases. As a result, the RAM calculation accuracy is improved, ensuring correct host memory reporting for users. (OCPBUGS-66374)
* Before this update, users attempted to access unauthorized API resources on vSphere clusters, and caused a 500 error when accessing metrics. With this release, the 8445 port issue on vSphere is fixed and returns a 401 forbidden response, improving metrics access in vSphere environments. (OCPBUGS-74569)
* Before this update, autoscaling imbalance occurred because of ignored labels not added to worker nodes. As a consequence, nodes in 3 pools scaled unevenly, and caused workload imbalance. With this release, the autoscaler ignores certain labels for even distribution in node pools. As a result, nodes in 3 pools scale up more evenly, improving the distribution of the workload. (OCPBUGS-74893)
* Before this update, the Subscription details list page was empty because of a missing code fix in the release team build cycle. With this release, the Subscription details list page is populated, improving user navigation. (OCPBUGS-74998)
* Before this update, the collect-profiles job was affected by maintenance difficulties, causing confusion for customers and support engineers during troubleshooting. With this release, the collect-profiles job is removed, improving user experience and reducing maintenance effort. (OCPBUGS-76266)
* Before this update, the upgrade to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.0 enforced short name mode, and caused image pull failures with multiple sources. As a consequence, end users experienced image pull failure due to enforced short name mode. With this release, short name mode is disabled in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.0-0.nightly-2026-02-10-112229 and resolves the image pull failure issue. As a result, short name mode is disabled, preventing CRI-O failures when pulling images with an unqualified search. (OCPBUGS-76356)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2026:2129 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21.1 fixed issues and security update

Issued: 10 February 2026

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.21.1 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2026:2129 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHSA-2026:2082 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.21.1 --pullspecs
```


### Enhancements

This release contains the following enhancements:

* With this update, dual-stack networking support is added for deploying a hosted control plane on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Virtualization with Kubevirt. The Cluster Network Operator (CNO) now recognizes Kubevirt as a supported platform for dual-stack, which enables the successful deployment of hosted control plane with IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack networking. This enhancement ensures a smoother deployment process for dual-stack networking configurations. (OCPBUGS-69941)
* With this update, the API request limits in the csi-snapshot-controller are increased, which addresses low limits that caused throttling during snapshot processing. This enhancement ensures smoother and more efficient handling of snapshot operations, which improves the scalability and performance of the csi-snapshot-controller. (OCPBUGS-72391)

### Known issues

This release contains the following known issues:

* If you try to use the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console to create a Kueue custom resource (CR) by using the form view, the web console shows an error and the resource cannot be created. As a workaround, use the YAML view to create a Kueue CR instead. (OCPBUGS-58118)
* When you select Ecosystem -> Software Catalog in the unified software catalog view of the web console, you must enter an existing project name or create a new project to view the software catalog. The project selection field does not affect how catalog content is installed on the cluster. As a workaround, enter any existing project name to view the software catalog. (OCPBUGS-61870)
* Starting with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21, there is a decrease in the default maximum open files soft limit for containers. As a consequence, you might experience application failures. To work around this problem, workloads can set their ulimit inside of the container up to the new defaulted hard limit of 524288. (OCPBUGS-62327)
* Before this update, event logs for the Global Network Resource-Device (GNR-D) interfaces were ambiguous due to identical three-letter prefixes ("eno"). As a consequence, affected interfaces were not clearly identified during state changes. With this release, the interfaces used by the ptp-operator are changed to follow the "path" naming convention, which ensures that per clock events are identified correctly based on interface names and clearly indicate which clock is affected by state changes. (OCPBUGS-62817)
* Using a Telecom Time Synchronous Clock (T-TSC) configuration causes the ts2phc metrics to report "unlocked" instead of "locked". As a result, you might encounter inaccurate Precision Time Protocol (PTP) clock state reporting. To work around this issue, remove the ts2phc metric. (OCPBUGS-63158)
* The PTP Daemon failed to lock after reboot due to an initial offset convergence issue, which caused long reboot times for the PTP Daemon and the clock to never lock. This issue is planned to be fixed in a later release. (OCPBUGS-66252)

### Fixed issues

The following issues are fixed for this release:

* Before this update, the HyperShift CLI instantiated Microsoft Azure SDK clients without passing cloud configuration options, which caused all clients to default to Azure Public Cloud. As a consequence, hosted clusters that were created or managed in Azure Government Cloud or Azure China Cloud failed because the Azure SDK clients could not connect to the correct cloud endpoints. With this release, a GetAzureCloudConfiguration() helper function is added to convert cloud names to Azure SDK cloud configurations. All Azure SDK client instantiations are also updated across 15 locations in the HyperShift CLI and control-plane-operator to use proper cloud configuration from HostedCluster.Spec.Platform.Azure.Cloud (for cluster commands and control-plane-operator). As a result, the HyperShift CLI and control-plane-operator correctly support creating and managing hosted clusters in Azure Government Cloud and Azure China Cloud in addition to Azure Public Cloud. (OCPBUGS-33372)
* Before this update, alerts in the project overview were not visible because the application was querying an incorrect API. With this release, the application now queries the correct API and displays the project alerts. (OCPBUGS-33879)
* Before this update, the bootstrap logs could not be collected as the SSH connection was dropped because a security-group rule for the bootstrap machine was missing. With this release, an additional security-group is added to the bootstrap machine to enable SSH connection and to enable log collection. (OCPBUGS-34950)
* Before this update, the hostedcontrolplane controller crashed when the hcp.Spec.Platform.AWS.CloudProviderConfig.Subnet.ID parameter was undefined because the code accessed the config.Subnet.ID parameter without first checking if the config.Subnet value was nil. As a consequence, the control plane`HostedControlPlane` resourceer before accessing the Subnet.ID parameter and the check uses ptr.Deref(config.Subnet.ID, "") for safe dereferencing. As a result, the control plane Operator no longer crashes when the CloudProviderConfig.Subnet parameter is not specified. Instead, the control plane Operator uses an empty string for the subnet ID parameter to gracefully handle the missing field. (OCPBUGS-38358)
* Before this update, the controller created and deleted a file with a random name when it was setting up authentication to Amazon Web Services (AWS). As a consequence, the controller continuously allocated more memory. With this release, the same file name is used instead of a random file name. As a result, the kernel re-uses the dentry instead of requesting a new one for each file. (OCPBUGS-38759)
* Before this update, if the ovnkube-controller on a node failed to process updates and configure its local OVN database, the OVN-controller could connect to this stale database. This caused the OVN-controller to consume outdated EgressIP configurations and send incorrect Gratuitous ARPs (GARPs) for an IP address that might have already moved to a different node. With this release, the OVN-Controller is blocked from sending these GARPs during the time when the ovnkube-controller is not processing updates. As a result, network disruptions are prevented by ensuring GARPs are not sent based on stale database information. (OCPBUGS-42303)
* Before this update, the CA certificate reference to HelmChartRepository caused chart installation failure. As a consequence, Helm chart installation failed because it could not find the chart. With this release, the issue is fixed. As a result, the CA certificate configuration no longer breaks the Helm chart installation. (OCPBUGS-44235)
* Before this update, if NetworkManager was restarted or crashed on a node with a br-ex interface managed by NMState, the node lost network connectivity. With this release, a fallback check in the dispatcher script was added to detect NMState-managed br-ex interfaces by checking for the br-ex-br bridge ID when the standard br-ex bridge ID is not found. As a result, nodes with this interface type do not lose network connectivity when NetworkManager restarts or crashes. (OCPBUGS-54682)
* Before this update, unintended executable permissions were set on generated files during mirror operation which caused potential unexpected behavior in user workflows. With this release, the unintended executable permissions are removed from generated files during the oc-mirror v2 operation. As a result, the stability of the oc-mirror tool is improved. (OCPBUGS-55489)
* Before this update, the operand details page would incorrectly show information using only half of the screen's viewport. With this release, the operand details take up the full page width as expected. (OCPBUGS-55746)
* Before this update, concurrent map iteration and write in the kube-apiserver caused crashes on audit log events. As a consequence, when an API server crashed, the other API servers were stormed with kubelet LIST/WATCH requests that caused disruptions. With this release, the concurrent map iteration and write error is resolved. As a result, API disruptions are prevented. (OCPBUGS-56594)
* Before this update, setting an invalid certificate secret name in the service annotation service.beta.openshift.io/serving-cert-secret-name parameter caused the service certificate authority (CA) Operator to hotloop. With this release, the Operator stops retrying to create the secret after 10 tries. The number of retries cannot be changed. (OCPBUGS-56599)
* Before this update, the Microsoft Azure machine provider was not passing the dataDisks configuration from the machine set into the virtual machine creation API request for the Azure Stack Hub. As a consequence, new machines were created without the specified data disks because the configuration was silently ignored during the VM creation process. With this release, the VM creation for the Azure Stack Hub is updated to include the dataDisks configuration. An additional update manually implements the behavior of the deletionPolicy: Delete parameter in the controller because the Azure Stack Hub does not natively support this option. As a result, data disks are correctly provisioned on the Azure Stack Hub VMs. The Delete policy is also functionally supported, which ensures that disks are properly removed when their machines are removed. (OCPBUGS-56664)
* Before this update, the oc adm must-gather volume checker script assumed that the directory was empty. As a consequence, if the directory was initially not empty, the node disk size was incorrectly calculated. With this release, the size of directory is always correctly calculated. (OCPBUGS-56691)
* Before this update, when the LookupDefaultOCPVersion function was called without a specified release stream, the system might have tried to use a multi-architecture Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version that was newer than what the currently installed HyperShift Operator supported. As a consequence, potential compatibility issues occurred. With this release, the logic for determining the default Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version is updated so that it consults the supported-versions config map to identify the latest stable multi-architecture Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image that is compatible with the HyperShift Operator. As a result, when no release stream is provided, the system defaults to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version that is guaranteed to be supported by the installed HyperShift Operator, which prevents compatibility problems. (OCPBUGS-56701)
* Before this update, any unrelated changes to a netpol resource triggered a full reconcile of the object, including deleting and re-adding rules. With this release, a netpol object fully reconciles when required. Otherwise, the object reconciliation is skipped. (OCPBUGS-56749)
* Before this update, the installation did not fail if you annotated the AgentClusterInstall manifest with incorrect edits to the install-config.yaml file overrides. Instead, the installation continued to proceed by using incomplete data from the AgentClusterInstall manifest excluding the install-config.yaml file overrides. As a consequence, any error in the install-config overrides meant that all configurations passed in the install-config.yaml file overrides were ignored, including the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) mode setting. With this release, the cluster installation proceeds only when the data is valid for both the manifest and its annotations. As a result, cluster installation does not proceed unless all of the install-config overrides are applied successfully. (OCPBUGS-56913)
* Before this update, some error messages in the login page of the web console were not localized. As a consequence, those messages were always displayed in English. With this release, these error messages now adapt to your preferred language. (OCPBUGS-56915)
* With this release, when service endpoints are deleted or updated, the cleanup process correctly uses the service port to match and remove stale conntrack entries. This change ensures that network connectivity continues to work reliably across endpoint lifecycle events. (OCPBUGS-57053)
* Before this update, when clusters that used multi-architecture release payload images with the ClusterVersion object spec.desiredUpdate.architecture field set to Multi, the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) was not populated with update recommendations for later releases. With this release, a comparison of incorrect values is fixed. As a result, the update recommendations are populated. (OCPBUGS-57646)
* Before this update, a pod with a secondary interface in an OVN-Kubernetes localnet network (mapped to the br-ex bridge) could communicate with pods on the same node that used the default network for connectivity only if the localnet IP addresses were within the same subnet as the host network. With this release, the localnet IP addresses can be drawn from any subnet. In this generalized case, an external router outside the cluster is expected to connect the localnet subnet to the host network. (OCPBUGS-59657)
* Before this update, a problem with signal handling in the keepalived container caused an unnecessary delay in failover when the nodes were restarted. As a consequence, access to the API and ingress services was disrupted. With this release, the signal handling is fixed so failover occurs immediately. As a result, disruption to the API and ingress services is minimized. (OCPBUGS-59925)
* Before this update, the must-gather script failed because of an improper pkill command syntax with multiple patterns. As a consequence, the script continued to run despite disk space issues and a pkill failure. With this release, the must-gather script correctly handles pkill with multiple patterns. As a result, the script stops running when disk space is insufficient, which improves system stability. (OCPBUGS-59951)
* Before this update, any custom label and annotation added to the openshift-nmstate namespace was incorrectly removed. With this release, a fix is appied to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform so that any custom label and annotation added to the openshift-nmstate namespace is not removed in error. (OCPBUGS-60083)
* Before this update, gRPC connection logs were set at a highly verbose log level. This generated an excessive number of messages, which caused the logs to overflow. With this release, the gRPC connection logs have been moved to the V(4) log level. Consequently, the logs no longer overflow, because these specific messages are now less verbose by default. (OCPBUGS-60108)
* Before this update, cluster namespaces with the "nodes" suffix in their name would cause the Performance Profile Creator (PPC) to fail when mistaking incorrect namespace directories with the must-gather nodes directories in the must-gather processed by the PPC. With this release, the PPC now correctly excludes the namespaces directory when processing the must-gather data to create a suggested PerformanceProfile value. (OCPBUGS-60218)
* Before this update, during failover, the system's duplicate address detection (DAD) could incorrectly disable the Egress IPv6 address if it was briefly present on both nodes, breaking the connection. With this release, the Egress IPv6 is configured to skip the DAD check during failover, guaranteeing uninterrupted egress IPv6 traffic after an Egress IP address successfully moves to a different node and ensuring greater network stability. (OCPBUGS-60468)
* Before this update, an external actor could uncordon a node that the Machine Config Operator (MCO) is draining. As a consequence, the MCO and the scheduler would schedule and unschedule pods at the same time, which prolonged the drain process. With this release, the MCO attempts to recordon the node if an external actor uncordons it during the drain process. As a result, the MCO and scheduler no longer schedule and remove pods at the same time. (OCPBUGS-60537)
* Before this update, the bare-metal installer-provisioned infrastructure deployment accepted non-integer mtu values in the install-config.yaml file. As a consequence, invalid mtu values in the yaml file caused runtime errors. With this release, the installation program validates mtu as an integer in the install-config.yaml file. As a result, runtime errors are prevented. (OCPBUGS-60752)
* Before this update, when a MachineDeployment object was in the process of upgrading its machines and the Cluster Autoscaler was also scaling the MachineDeployment object, the Cluster Autoscaler could remove new machines by scaling down the MachineDeployment object for under-utilized nodes. With this release, scale down does not occur when a MachineDeployment object is in the process of upgrading its machines. (OCPBUGS-60790)
* Before this update, the MachineHealthCheck custom resource definition (CRD) did not document the default value for the maxUnhealthy field. With this release, the CRD documents the default value. (OCPBUGS-60901)
* Before this update, a bug prevented the ValidatingAdmissionPolicy resource from applying to certain Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform API resources, such as the BuildConfig and DeploymentConfig resources. As a consequence, custom admission policies were not enforced on these specific resources, which potentially allowed configurations that did not meet organizational standards to be created or updated. With this release, the validation logic is corrected to ensure that the ValidatingAdmissionPolicy resource now correctly identifies and applies to all intended Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform resources. As a result, users can consistently enforce policies across their entire cluster, including the BuildConfig and DeploymentConfig resources. (OCPBUGS-61056)
* Before this update, the YAML editor in the web console would default to indenting YAML files with four spaces. With this release, the default indentation has changed to two spaces to align with recommendations. (OCPBUGS-61393)
* Before this update, the Cluster Ingress Operator pod restarted with existing IngressController resources in Available or Degraded status, which caused the ingress_controller_conditions metric to disappear from the Operator's /metrics endpoint. As a consequence, you could not monitor the IngressController status following a pod restart. With this release, the IngressControllerConditions metric is set during every reconciliation cycle, regardless of whether an Ingress controller status update occurred, which ensures reliable and continuous monitoring of the IngressController health. (OCPBUGS-61508)
* Before this update, the Operand details page in the web console would show additional status items in a third column, which resulted in the content appearing squashed. With this update, only two columns display in the Operand details page. (OCPBUGS-61519)
* Before this update, when you resized the persistent volume claim (PVC) close to creation time, the PV bound to PVC would sometimes not be found. With this release, the PV bound to PVC is found when you resize the PVC close to creation time. (OCPBUGS-61547)
* Before this update, an NMState service failure occurred in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform deployments because of a NetworkManager-wait-online dependency issue in bare metal and multiple network interface controller (NIC) environments. As a consequence, an incorrect network configuration caused deployment failures. With this release, the NetworkManager-wait-online dependency for bare metal deployments is updated, which reduces deployment failures and ensures NMState service stability. (OCPBUGS-61695)
* Before this update, deploying hosted control planes on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.20 and later with user-supplied ignition-server-serving-cert and ignition-server-ca-cert secrets parameters, along with the disable-pki-reconciliation annotation parameter, caused the system to remove the user supplied ignition secrets and the ignition-server pods to fail. With this release, the Ignition-server secrets are preserved during reconciliation after removing the delete action for the disable-pki-reconciliation annotation, which ensures that ignition-server pods start up completely. (OCPBUGS-61776)
* Before this update, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16 and later versions failed to respect the timeout http-keep-alive setting due to a known upstream HAProxy bug, preventing users from effectively managing connection persistence. This lack of control resulted in inconsistent connection behaviors, where long-lived sessions might be terminated unexpectedly or held open longer than normal. With this release, the HTTPKeepAliveTimeout tuning option is integrated into the IngressController API, providing a formal way for customers to configure and enforce this specific timeout. As a result, cluster administrators have the granular control necessary to align connection persistence with specific application needs. (OCPBUGS-61858)
* Before this update, when a HyperShift HostedCluster used external Domain Name Service (DNS) domains and endpoint access with PublicAndPrivate, the allowedCIDRBlocks parameters were incorrectly applied only to the internal kube-apiserve, which left the control plane Operator in an error state. With this release, the control plane Operator functions correctly and the LoadBalancerSourceRanges configuration is added to the external router LoadBalancer service. As a result, the external kube-apiserver access is properly restricted to the specified allowedCIDRBlocks parameter. (OCPBUGS-61941)
* Before this update, after disabling the local Alertmanager, Prometheus retained Alertmanager configuration references, which caused failed Domain Name Service (DNS) queries and false alerts. With this release, the Cluster Monitoring Operator removes Alertmanager endpoints from Prometheus when Alertmanager is disabled. As result, false alerts and failed DNS queries are prevented. (OCPBUGS-62160)
* Before this update, two identical copies of the same controller were updating the same Certificate Authority (CA) bundle in a ConfigMap causing them to receive different metadata inputs, rewrite each other's changes, and create duplicate events. With this release, the controllers use optimistic updating and server-side apply to avoid update events and handle update conflicts. As a result, metadata updates do not trigger duplicate events, and the expected metadata is set correctly. (OCPBUGS-62255)
* Before this update, the AdminNetworkPolicy, AdminPolicyBasedRouteListers, EgressFirewall, EgressQoS and NetworkQoS objects kept the managedFields status entries for nodes that had been deleted. As a consequence, a buildup of stale data occurred in etcd for large clusters with frequent node churn. With this release, the cleanup logic is fixed for all of these resource types. As a result, stale data buildup does not occur. (OCPBUGS-62262)
* Before this update, when you directly navigated to a page created by a web console dynamic plugin, the web console might have redirected you to a different URL. With this release, the URL redirect is removed. (OCPBUGS-62296)
* Before this update, Node log length was not limited. In the case of an extremely large log, this unlimited length could cause the log to not display or the browser to crash. With this release, the limits of a node log length is updated to 1000 lines so the log displays correctly. (OCPBUGS-62483)
* Before this update, certain InfiniBand hardware configurations could trigger invalid responses that disrupted the metrics collection process, As a consequence, no Infiniband metrics were generated. With this release, node-exporter properly handles these hardware-level reporting errors, which ensures continuous monitoring and data availability. (OCPBUGS-62727)
* Before this update, changes in Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image layering increased space usage on the rendezvous node ephemeral temporary file system to approximately 9.4GB during cluster bootstrapping. As a consequence, because the ephemeral temporary file system was capped at 50% of available RAM, installation would fail on hosts with less than 19GiB of memory due to insufficient space for container images. With this release, the additional data is moved to a separate temporary file system. As a result, any rendezvous host meeting the minimum RAM requirement for a control plane node (16GB) has sufficient capacity to successfully bootstrap a cluster. (OCPBUGS-62790)
* Before this update, a bug in the construction of the oc adm inspect --all-namespaces command prevented the must-gather utility from correctly identifying and capturing specific resource types. As a consequence, there was incomplete diagnostic data because information regarding the leases and csistoragecapacities resources, and the assisted-installer namespace, was missing from generated bundles. With this release, the command construction logic is corrected to ensure that these resources are properly targeted during the inspection process. As a result, the must-gather utility provides a comprehensive set of logs and metadata for these components, which enables more effective troubleshooting of storage and installation issues. (OCPBUGS-63189)
* Before this update, the Observe -> Metric page used the cluster-wide metrics API even when you did not have cluster-wide metrics API permissions. As a consequence, the query input showed an error and the autofill for the query input did not work without cluster-wide metrics API access. With this release, the namespace-tenancy metrics API is used if you do not have cluster-wide metrics API permissions, As a result, an error does not occur and autofill is available for the metrics within the selected namespace. (OCPBUGS-63429)
* Before this update, some Actions drop-down menus in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console contained only one menu item, which required you to open a menu for a single task. With this release, the single-item drop-down menus have been simplified to buttons. (OCPBUGS-63471)
* Before this update, during rolling cluster updates from etcd 3.5.19 to a release of 3.6, the wrong membership data could be propagated to new members. As a consequence, cluster updates failed with an error about too many learner members in the cluster. With this release, etcd is updated to 3.5.24, which includes fixes so that the membership-related errors do not occur. (OCPBUGS-63473)
* Before this update, the oc-mirror tool generated ImageDigestMirrorSet (IDMS) files that included an unnecessary, empty status: line at the end of the configuration. As a consequence, automated deployment failures and API validation errors occurred because the empty field was often flagged as an invalid schema or an incomplete resource during the synchronization process. With this release, the file generation logic is corrected to completely strip the empty status line from all generated IDMS files. As a result, automated workflows are streamlined by ensuring that mirrored files are immediately compatible with Kubernetes-native tools. This compatability enables more reliable GitOps integrations and reduces manual intervention during large-scale deployments. (OCPBUGS-63480)
* Before this update, the ccoctl utility would always generate a new keypair when the private key was not found in the output directory. Several documented procedures instruct the user to extract only the public key from an existing cluster before using the ccoctl utility in order to reduce the risk of the private key being compromised. As a result, users following these processes were experiencing service outages due to the newly generated keypair not matching the cluster itself. With this release, a new keypair is never generated when a public key is specified with the --public-key-file parameter. It also ensures this parameter exists on all of the create-all functions in order to extend this functionality. As a result, specifying the --public-key-file ensures the specified public key is used and the cluster continues to function as expected. (OCPBUGS-63541)
* Before this update, the ccoctl utility did not support pagination when retrieving CloudFront distributions. As a result, if the distribution to be deleted was not included in the first batch of results, the CloudFront distribution and its associated origin access identity could not be deleted successfully during the ccoctl Amazon Web Services (AWS) delete operation. With this release, poagination support is added to the ccoctl utility when fetching CloudFront distributions. As a result, the distribution can be located and deleted properly. (OCPBUGS-63561)
* Before this update, newer vSphere clusters using the YAML-based cloud configuration format were failing to honor the minimum read-only permissions provided for ResourcePools. As a consequence, clusters ignored specified permission constraints, which might have led to deployment errors or security policy violations when interacting with vSphere resources. With this release, the cloud configuration logic is corrected to ensure that YAML-based configurations strictly enforce the required read-only permissions for ResourcePools. As a result, cluster operations correctly respect the provided vSphere permission set, which ensures stable and secure resource management within restricted environments. (OCPBUGS-63598)
* Before this update, the CLI's GenerateNodePools() function incorrectly set AzureMarketplace to nil when you specified the --image-generation flag without additional marketplace flags, which discarded your preference. Also, the nodepool controller failed to set the ImageGeneration flag when creating images from the release payload, which caused them to default to Gen2. As a consequence, when users attempted to create Microsoft Azure hosted clusters using --image-generation Gen1, the NodePools parameters were incorrectly provisioned with Gen2 images, which ignored the explicit configuration. With this release, the CLI is modified to preserve your preference by creating a proper AzureMarketplaceImage structure, and the nodepool controller explicitly sets the generation field based on the release payload (mapping Gen1 for HyperVGen1 and Gen2 for HyperVGen2). As a result, the --image-generation flag is now fully respected, which allows you to successfully deploy NodePools with their chosen image generation without being overwritten by system defaults. (OCPBUGS-63613)
* Before this update, the Microsoft Azure Machine API provider incorrectly attempted to use a default platformUpdateDomainCount parameter value of 5, even in specific regions, such as CentralUSEUAP, that are restricted to a single fault domain. As a consequence, machine creation failed for all node types in these affected regions because Azure supports only one update domain when the fault domain count is set to 1. With this release, the logic is updated to explicitly set the platformUpdateDomainCount value to 1 whenever a single fault domain is detected. As a result, Availability Sets are created with valid parameter combinations, which allows nodes to successfully provision in Azure regions that use a single fault domain. (OCPBUGS-63729)
* Before this update, Operator deployment templates with the hostUsers: false flag were not processed by the Cluster Version Operator (CVO), causing their omission in the resulting deployment. As a consequence, user deployments with hostUsers: false flag were missing this field, which caused incomplete deployments. With this release, support for the hostUsers flag in resource merge is added, which resolves the missing hostUsers issue in deployments. As a result, Operator deployment templates with the hostUsers: false flag are correctly picked up by CVO, which ensures complete deployments. (OCPBUGS-64732)
* Before this update, a race condition in Redfish Power interface occurred during simultaneous power operations, which caused power operations to fail. As a consequence, you could not manage power settings reliably. With this release, the race condition in Redfish Power interface is resolved, which ensures reliable power operations. (OCPBUGS-64845)
* Before this update, the firewall delete permission was missing in the service account for the destroy process. As a consequence, the destroy process ran indefinitely due to pending firewall deletions. With this release, the required compute.firewalls.delete permission for firewalls in the destroy process is added. As a result, the destroy process no longer runs indefinitely, which improves the efficiency of the delete operation. (OCPBUGS-65512)
* Before this update, the Ironic API advertised an unreachable IP despite being routable. As a consequence, the unreachable Ironic API caused service disruption. With this release, the Ironic API advertised IP is now checked for reachability, in addition to routability. As a result, the unreachable Ironic API IP does not cause disruptions. (OCPBUGS-65518)
* Before this update, primary NIC deletion failure occurred in Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) due to policy prevention before instance deletion in the old cluster-api-provider-openstack version. As a consequence, instance deletion failed on RHOSP cloud providers with custom policies. With this release, we moved port deletion after instance deletion in cluster-api-provider-openstack. As a result, primary NICs are not prevented from deletion on RHOSP cloud providers, which allows successful instance deletion. (OCPBUGS-65712)
* Before this update, when opening a terminal to a running pod, the session was disconnected whenever the annotations of the pod changed. With this release, the terminal session does not disconnect when this metadata is changed. (OCPBUGS-65776)
* Before this update, an incorrect MAC address conflict from HPE Virtual NIC occurred. As a consequence, two BareMetalHost nodes remained stuck in inspection due to a conflict with a virtual NIC, which caused repeated lookup failures and prevented hardware inspection completion. With this release, disabling HPE Virtual NIC resolves the MAC address conflict, which allows the completion of the hardware inspection. (OCPBUGS-65961)
* Before this update, the HostedCluster command failed due to an invalid API server service with the LoadBalancerSourceRanges parameter when you set the allowedCIDRBlocks, externalDns, and publicAndPrivate parameters. As a consequence, a control plane failure occurred due to an invalid API server service configuration. With this release, the issue with API server service invalidity when setting the allowedCIDRBlocks parameter with the externalDns and publicAndPrivate parameters is fixed. As a result, the control plane does not fail when setting the allowedCIDRBlocks parameter with the externalDns and publicAndPrivate parameters (OCPBUGS-66067)
* Before this update, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console required the Quick starts feature to completely load before the console loaded. With this release, Quick starts load asynchronously, which optimizes the loading time of the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console by about 30 to 50%. (OCPBUGS-66258)
* Before this update, during the cluster deletion got stuck during the inspection phase due to a power off stage transition. As a consequence, the cluster was not deleted. With this release, the bare-metal host (BMH) is prevented from getting stuck during deletion in a ZTP environment. As a result, the cluster removal is prevented from getting stuck during the inspection phase, which improves the efficiency of the ZTP environment. (OCPBUGS-68369)
* Before this update, the application selector on the Topology page was reset to All applications after you selected an application. With this release, you can successfully apply the application on the Topology page. (OCPBUGS-69388)
* Before this update, the systemd use in the container entry point prevented the ConfigMap mount from working correctly, which caused broken file permissions. As a consequence, users could not access config files due to the broken file permissions in the containers. With this release, the systemd entry point issue is resolved, which allows the config map mount with the correct file permissions. As a result, the file permissions are correct for the containers. (OCPBUGS-69669)
* Before this update, the instance architecture in worker machines did not match the Amazon Machine Images (AMI) architecture, which caused a mismatch. As a consequence, installation failure occurred on the arm64 architecture because of incorrect instance provisioning. With this release, the architecture mismatch is resolved. As a result, AMI architecture installations are successful. (OCPBUGS-69965)
* Before this update, the Ironic image default IRONIC_CACERT_FILE was a read-only path, which caused failure when you copied cert files for self-signed certificates. As a consequence, cert files were not copied because of the read-only path in the Ironic image. With this release, the IRONIC_CACERT_FILE default path is changed from read-only to CUSTOM_CONFIG_DIR. As a result, the Ironic image successfully copies cert files in self-signed scenarios. (OCPBUGS-70156)
* Before this update, Ironic wrote to the Read-only /certs/ca/ironic path because of a missing ironic-ca-cert path setting. As a consequence, deployment failed. With this release, Ironic does not write to the Read-only path, which improves system stability. (OCPBUGS-70163)
* Before this update, the storage Operator did not create the required RoleBinding value for Prometheus in the openshift-cluster-csi-drivers namespace, which caused the monitoring of the CSI driver namespace to fail and prevented metric collection. With this release, the storage Operator creates the RoleBinding value for the Prometheus Service Account in the {openshift-cluster-csi-drivers} namespace. As a result, CSI drivers are successfully monitored during HyperShift Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) runs. (OCPBUGS-72509)
* Before this update, Amazon Web Services (AWS) inconsistency caused an instance ID leak because of checks that were not updated in status. As a consequence, machine creation led to instance leaks because of the inconsistent AWS responses. With this release, the instance ID storage inconsistency in the machine creation is fixed. As a result, VM leaks do not occur, which ensures consistent machine creation. (OCPBUGS-72523)
* Before this update, when you installed on Amazon Web Services (AWS) where the installation program provisions the Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), a potential mismatch could occur in the subnet information in the AWS Availability Zone between the machine set custom resources for control plane nodes and their corresponding EC2 instances. As a consequence, where the control plane nodes were spread across three Availability Zones, and one was recreated, the discrepancy could result in an unbalanced control plane as two nodes occurred within the same Availability Zone. With this release, the subnet Availability Zone information is the same in the machine set custom resources and in the EC2 instances. (OCPBUGS-73773)
* Before this update, catalog sync triggered high I/O on masters, and caused etcd leader election and TTL counter resets. As a consequence, catalog sync caused high I/O and etcd events persistence, which affected user cluster performance. With this release, catalog sync duration is reduced from 10 minutes to four hours. As a result, I/O load and etcd events are reduced and catalog sync duration is minimized. (OCPBUGS-73881)
* Before this update, when navigating to the Software Catalog page with the Devfiles category disabled, the page showed a Devfile-related error in a disconnected cluster. With this release, this error is not shown. (OCPBUGS-74157)
* Before this update, upgrading to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 caused loss of network connectivity for VM pods using ovn-k8s-cni-overlay localnet NetworkAttachmentDefinitions. As a consequence, VM network connectivity was lost during the upgrade, requiring pod or VM restarts. With this release, the upgrade process fix includes logical switch port creation for VMs during the 4.18 upgrade. As a result, VMs maintain network connectivity during and after upgrading to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18. (OCPBUGS-74267)
* Before this update, a duplicate channel in catalog.json caused a mirroring failure. As a consequence, mirroring operation failed for some Operators due to a duplicate channel error. With this release, the mirroring issue is fixed. As a result, mirroring to enclaves succeeds without duplicate channel errors in version 4.21.0 and later. (OCPBUGS-74577)
* Before this update, the DaemonSet objects incorrectly used the status field, which caused a message that displayed 0 of pods. As a consequence, incorrect pod counts occurred for the DaemonSets objects. With this release, the DaemonSet status replicas are correctly displayed. (OCPBUGS-74587)
* Before this update, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator did not detect changes to the throughputMib field in the AWSMachineProviderConfig custom resource (CR). As a consequence, the Control Plane Machine Set had incorrect default values for this parameter and did not support increasing the throughput of gp3 storage volumes in an AWS cluster. With this release, the internal API definitions used by the Control Plane Machine Set Operator are updated to recognize the throughputMib field. As a result, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator now identifies, reconciles, and applies changes to the throughputMib field. (OCPBUGS-74588)
* Before this update, static pods terminated prematurely due to an ignored priorityClassName field in kubelet. As a consequence, long shutdown times and storage issues occurred in Single Node single-node OpenShift environments. With this release, the static pod shutdown order is fixed. As a result, long shutdown times and storage layer issues are reduced in single-node OpenShift environments. (OCPBUGS-74621)
* Before this update, unexpected issues occurred during the initial provisioning of a HostedCluster resource. With this release, the system uses the ControlPlaneComponent resource to ensure that the HostedCluster resource is available only after all control plane components have been successfully rolled out. As a result, the rollout status of each control plane component is accurately tracked, which reduces the risk of unexpected issues. (OCPBUGS-74648)
* Before this update, Google Cloud installations failed due to unspecified zones in the us-south1 and us-central1 regions, which caused installation issues. With this release, the GCP installer requires that you specify zones in install-config for regions with AI zones. As a result, Google Cloud installations do not fail in these specified regions. (OCPBUGS-74672)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.21 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.