Installing a cluster on AWS with network customizations

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.15, you can install a cluster on Amazon Web Services (AWS) with customized network configuration options. By customizing your network configuration, your cluster can coexist with existing IP address allocations in your environment and integrate with existing MTU and VXLAN configurations.

You must set most of the network configuration parameters during installation, and you can modify only kubeProxy configuration parameters in a running cluster.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You configured an AWS account to host the cluster.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.
Internet access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console] to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access
During an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation, you can provide an SSH public key to the installation program. The key is passed to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes through their Ignition config files and is used to authenticate SSH access to the nodes. The key is added to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys list for the core user on each node, which enables password-less authentication.

After the key is passed to the nodes, you can use the key pair to SSH in to the RHCOS nodes as the user core. To access the nodes through SSH, the private key identity must be managed by SSH for your local user.

If you want to SSH in to your cluster nodes to perform installation debugging or disaster recovery, you must provide the SSH public key during the installation process. The ./openshift-install gather command also requires the SSH public key to be in place on the cluster nodes.

Do not skip this procedure in production environments, where disaster recovery and debugging is required.
You must use a local key, not one that you configured with platform-specific approaches such as AWS key pairs.
If you do not have an existing SSH key pair on your local machine to use for authentication onto your cluster nodes, create one. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command:

View the public SSH key:

Add the SSH private key identity to the SSH agent for your local user, if it has not already been added. SSH agent management of the key is required for password-less SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes, or if you want to use the ./openshift-install gather command.

Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:


When you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, provide the SSH public key to the installation program.
Obtaining the installation program
Before you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, download the installation file on  the host you are using for installation.

You have a computer that runs Linux or macOS, with 500 MB of local disk space.


Access the Infrastructure Provider page on the OpenShift Cluster Manager site. If you have a Red Hat account, log in with your credentials. If you do not, create an account.

Select your infrastructure provider.

Navigate to the page for your installation type, download the installation program that corresponds with your host operating system and architecture, and place the file in the directory where you will store the installation configuration files.

Extract the installation program. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux
operating system, run the following command:

Download your installation https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.
Network configuration phases
There are two phases prior to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation where you can customize the network configuration.


Phase 1
You can customize the following network-related fields in the install-config.yaml file before you create the manifest files:
Phase 2
After creating the manifest files by running openshift-install create manifests, you can define a customized Cluster Network Operator manifest with only the fields you want to modify. You can use the manifest to specify advanced network configuration.


You cannot override the values specified in phase 1 in the install-config.yaml file during phase 2. However, you can further customize the network plugin during phase 2.
Creating the installation configuration file
You can customize the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster you install on Amazon Web Services (AWS).

You have the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.


Create the install-config.yaml file.

Modify the install-config.yaml file. You can find more information about the available parameters in the "Installation configuration parameters" section.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use
it to install multiple clusters.


Installation configuration parameters for AWS


Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation
Each cluster machine must meet the following minimum requirements:


One vCPU is equivalent to one physical core when simultaneous multithreading (SMT), or hyperthreading, is not enabled. When enabled, use the following formula to calculate the corresponding ratio: (threads per core × cores) × sockets = vCPUs.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and Kubernetes are sensitive to disk performance, and faster storage is recommended, particularly for etcd on the control plane nodes which require a 10 ms p99 fsync duration. Note that on many cloud platforms, storage size and IOPS scale together, so you might need to over-allocate storage volume to obtain sufficient performance.

As with all user-provisioned installations, if you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you take responsibility for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance, including performing system updates, applying patches, and completing all other required tasks. Use of RHEL 7 compute machines is deprecated and has been removed in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.10 and later.
As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.13, RHCOS is based on RHEL version 9.2, which updates the micro-architecture requirements. The following list contains the minimum instruction set architectures (ISA) that each architecture requires:

x86-64 architecture requires x86-64-v2 ISA

ARM64 architecture requires ARMv8.0-A ISA

IBM Power architecture requires Power 9 ISA

s390x architecture requires z14 ISA


For more information, see RHEL Architectures.
If an instance type for your platform meets the minimum requirements for cluster machines, it is supported to use in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

Optimizing storage
Tested instance types for AWS
The following Amazon Web Services (AWS) instance types have been tested with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

Use the machine types included in the following charts for your AWS instances. If you use an instance type that is not listed in the chart, ensure that the instance size you use matches the minimum resource requirements that are listed in the section named "Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation".
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/installer/master/docs/user/aws/tested_instance_types_x86_64.md
Tested instance types for AWS on 64-bit ARM infrastructures
The following Amazon Web Services (AWS) 64-bit ARM instance types have been tested with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

Use the machine types included in the following charts for your AWS ARM instances. If you use an instance type that is not listed in the chart, ensure that the instance size you use matches the minimum resource requirements that are listed in "Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation".
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/installer/master/docs/user/aws/tested_instance_types_aarch64.md
Sample customized install-config.yaml file for AWS
You can customize the installation configuration file (install-config.yaml) to specify more details about your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

This sample YAML file is provided for reference only. You must obtain your install-config.yaml file by using the installation program and modify it.
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com 1
credentialsMode: Mint 2
controlPlane: 3 4
  hyperthreading: Enabled 5
  name: master
  platform:
    aws:
      zones:
      - us-west-2a
      - us-west-2b
      rootVolume:
        iops: 4000
        size: 500
        type: io1 6
      metadataService:
        authentication: Optional 7
      type: m6i.xlarge
  replicas: 3
compute: 3
- hyperthreading: Enabled 5
  name: worker
  platform:
    aws:
      rootVolume:
        iops: 2000
        size: 500
        type: io1 6
      metadataService:
        authentication: Optional 7
      type: c5.4xlarge
      zones:
      - us-west-2c
  replicas: 3
metadata:
  name: test-cluster 1
networking: 3
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
  networkType: OVNKubernetes 8
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2 1
    propagateUserTags: true 3
    userTags:
      adminContact: jdoe
      costCenter: 7536
    amiID: ami-0c5d3e03c0ab9b19a 9
    serviceEndpoints: 10
      - name: ec2
        url: https://vpce-id.ec2.us-west-2.vpce.amazonaws.com
fips: false 11
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA... 12
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}' 1
Required. The installation program prompts you for this value.

Optional: Add this parameter to force the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) to use the specified mode. By default, the CCO uses the root credentials in the kube-system namespace to dynamically try to determine the capabilities of the credentials. For details about CCO modes, see the "About the Cloud Credential Operator" section in the Authentication and authorization guide.

If you do not provide these parameters and values, the installation program
provides the default value.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a
sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures,
the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the
first line of the controlPlane section must not. Only one control plane pool is used.

Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or
hyperthreading. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled
to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by
setting the parameter value to Disabled. If you disable simultaneous
multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster
machines.

To configure faster storage for etcd, especially for larger clusters, set the storage type as io1 and set iops to 2000.

Whether to require the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service v2 (IMDSv2). To require IMDSv2, set the parameter value to Required. To allow the use of both IMDSv1 and IMDSv2, set the parameter value to Optional. If no value is specified, both IMDSv1 and IMDSv2 are allowed.

The cluster network plugin to install. The default value OVNKubernetes is the only supported value.

The ID of the AMI used to boot machines for the cluster. If set, the AMI must belong to the same region as the cluster.

The AWS service endpoints. Custom endpoints are required when installing to an unknown AWS region. The endpoint URL must use the https protocol and the host must trust the certificate.

Whether to enable or disable FIPS mode. By default, FIPS mode is not enabled. If FIPS mode is enabled, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines that Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform runs on bypass the default Kubernetes cryptography suite and use the cryptography modules that are provided with RHCOS instead.

You can optionally provide the sshKey value that you use to access the machines in your cluster.
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to interact with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15. Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Alternatives to storing administrator-level secrets in the kube-system project
By default, administrator secrets are stored in the kube-system project. If you configured the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml file to Manual, you must use one of the following alternatives:

To manage long-term cloud credentials manually, follow the procedure in Manually creating long-term credentials.

To implement short-term credentials that are managed outside the cluster for individual components, follow the procedures in Configuring an AWS cluster to use short-term credentials.


Manually creating long-term credentials
The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) can be put into manual mode prior to installation in environments where the cloud identity and access management (IAM) APIs are not reachable, or the administrator prefers not to store an administrator-level credential secret in the cluster kube-system namespace.

If you did not set the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml configuration file to Manual, modify the value as shown:

If you have not previously created installation manifest files, do so by running the following command:

Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Create YAML files for secrets in the openshift-install manifests directory that you generated previously. The secrets must be stored using the namespace and secret name defined in the spec.secretRef for each CredentialsRequest object.


Before upgrading a cluster that uses manually maintained credentials, you must ensure that the CCO is in an upgradeable state.
Configuring an AWS cluster to use short-term credentials
To install a cluster that is configured to use the AWS Security Token Service (STS), you must configure the CCO utility and create the required AWS resources for your cluster.

Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility
To create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster when the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) is operating in manual mode, extract and prepare the CCO utility (ccoctl) binary.

The ccoctl utility is a Linux binary that must run in a Linux environment.
You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform account with cluster administrator access.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).


You have created an AWS account for the ccoctl utility to use with the following permissions:


Obtain the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Obtain the CCO container image from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Extract the ccoctl binary from the CCO container image within the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Change the permissions to make ccoctl executable by running the following command:


To verify that ccoctl is ready to use, display the help file by running the following command:
Creating AWS resources with the Cloud Credential Operator utility
You have the following options when creating AWS resources:

You can use the ccoctl aws create-all command to create the AWS resources automatically. This is the quickest way to create the resources. See Creating AWS resources with a single command.

If you need to review the JSON files that the ccoctl tool creates before modifying AWS resources, or if the process the ccoctl tool uses to create AWS resources automatically does not meet the requirements of your organization, you can create the AWS resources individually. See Creating AWS resources individually.


Creating AWS resources with a single command
If the process the ccoctl tool uses to create AWS resources automatically meets the requirements of your organization, you can use the ccoctl aws create-all command to automate the creation of AWS resources.

Otherwise, you can create the AWS resources individually. For more information, see "Creating AWS resources individually".

By default, ccoctl creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the --output-dir flag. This procedure uses <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir> to refer to this directory.
You must have:

Extracted and prepared the ccoctl binary.


Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest objects from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Use the ccoctl tool to process all CredentialsRequest objects by running the following command:


To verify that the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform secrets are created, list the files in the <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests directory:
Creating AWS resources individually
You can use the ccoctl tool to create AWS resources individually. This option might be useful for an organization that shares the responsibility for creating these resources among different users or departments.

Otherwise, you can use the ccoctl aws create-all command to create the AWS resources automatically. For more information, see "Creating AWS resources with a single command".

By default, ccoctl creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the --output-dir flag. This procedure uses <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir> to refer to this directory.

Some ccoctl commands make AWS API calls to create or modify AWS resources. You can use the --dry-run flag to avoid making API calls. Using this flag creates JSON files on the local file system instead. You can review and modify the JSON files and then apply them with the AWS CLI tool using the --cli-input-json parameters.
Extract and prepare the ccoctl binary.


Generate the public and private RSA key files that are used to set up the OpenID Connect provider for the cluster by running the following command:

Create an OpenID Connect identity provider and S3 bucket on AWS by running the following command:

Create IAM roles for each component in the cluster:


To verify that the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform secrets are created, list the files in the <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests directory:
Incorporating the Cloud Credential Operator utility manifests
To implement short-term security credentials managed outside the cluster for individual components, you must move the manifest files that the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) created to the correct directories for the installation program.

You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have configured the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl).

You have created the cloud provider resources that are required for your cluster with the ccoctl utility.


If you did not set the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml configuration file to Manual, modify the value as shown:

If you have not previously created installation manifest files, do so by running the following command:

Copy the manifests that the ccoctl utility generated to the manifests directory that the installation program created by running the following command:

Copy the private key that the ccoctl utility generated in the tls directory to the installation directory by running the following command:
Cluster Network Operator configuration
The configuration for the cluster network is specified as part of the Cluster Network Operator (CNO) configuration and stored in a custom resource (CR) object that is named cluster. The CR specifies the fields for the Network API in the operator.openshift.io API group.

The CNO configuration inherits the following fields during cluster installation from the Network API in the Network.config.openshift.io API group:


clusterNetwork
IP address pools from which pod IP addresses are allocated.
serviceNetwork
IP address pool for services.
defaultNetwork.type
Cluster network plugin. OVNKubernetes is the only supported plugin during installation.


You can specify the cluster network plugin configuration for your cluster by setting the fields for the defaultNetwork object in the CNO object named cluster.

Cluster Network Operator configuration object
The fields for the Cluster Network Operator (CNO) are described in the following table:



The values for the defaultNetwork object are defined in the following table:



The following table describes the configuration fields for the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin:





defaultNetwork:
  type: OVNKubernetes
  ovnKubernetesConfig:
    mtu: 1400
    genevePort: 6081
      ipsecConfig:
        mode: Full
Using OVNKubernetes can lead to a stack exhaustion problem on IBM Power(R).

The values for the kubeProxyConfig object are defined in the following table:
Specifying advanced network configuration
You can use advanced network configuration for your network plugin to integrate your cluster into your existing network environment. You can specify advanced network configuration only before you install the cluster.

Customizing your network configuration by modifying the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform manifest files created by the installation program is not supported. Applying a manifest file that you create, as in the following procedure, is supported.
You have created the install-config.yaml file and completed any modifications to it.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and create the manifests:

Create a stub manifest file for the advanced network configuration that is named cluster-network-03-config.yml in the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory:

Specify the advanced network configuration for your cluster in the cluster-network-03-config.yml file, such as in the following example:

Optional: Back up the manifests/cluster-network-03-config.yml file. The
installation program consumes the manifests/ directory when you create the
Ignition config files.


For more information on using a Network Load Balancer (NLB) on AWS, see Configuring Ingress cluster traffic on AWS using a Network Load Balancer.
Configuring an Ingress Controller Network Load Balancer on a new AWS cluster
You can create an Ingress Controller backed by an AWS Network Load Balancer (NLB) on a new cluster.

Create the install-config.yaml file and complete any modifications to it.


Create an Ingress Controller backed by an AWS NLB on a new cluster.

Change to the directory that contains the installation program and create the manifests:

Create a file that is named cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml in the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory:

Open the cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml file in an editor and enter a custom resource (CR) that describes the Operator configuration you want:

Save the cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml file and quit the text editor.

Optional: Back up the manifests/cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml file. The installation program deletes the manifests/ directory when creating the cluster.
Configuring hybrid networking with OVN-Kubernetes
You can configure your cluster to use hybrid networking with the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin. This allows a hybrid cluster that supports different node networking configurations.

This configuration is necessary to run both Linux and Windows nodes in the same cluster.
You defined OVNKubernetes for the networking.networkType parameter in the install-config.yaml file. See the installation documentation for configuring Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform network customizations on your chosen cloud provider for more information.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and create the manifests:

Create a stub manifest file for the advanced network configuration that is named cluster-network-03-config.yml in the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory:

Open the cluster-network-03-config.yml file in an editor and configure OVN-Kubernetes with hybrid networking, such as in the following example:

Save the cluster-network-03-config.yml file and quit the text editor.

Optional: Back up the manifests/cluster-network-03-config.yml file. The
installation program deletes the manifests/ directory when creating the
cluster.


For more information on using Linux and Windows nodes in the same cluster, see Understanding Windows container workloads.
Deploying the cluster
You can install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that the cloud provider account on your host has the correct permissions to deploy the cluster. An account with incorrect permissions causes the installation process to fail with an error message that displays the missing permissions.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:

Optional: Remove or disable the AdministratorAccess policy from the IAM
account that you used to install the cluster.


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation.

You deployed an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:
Logging in to the cluster by using the web console
The kubeadmin user exists by default after an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation. You can log in to your cluster as the kubeadmin user by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the installation host.

You completed a cluster installation and all cluster Operators are available.


Obtain the password for the kubeadmin user from the kubeadmin-password file on the installation host:

List the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console route:

Navigate to the route detailed in the output of the preceding command in a web browser and log in as the kubeadmin user.


See Accessing the web console for more details about accessing and understanding the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.
Telemetry access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

After you confirm that your https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console] inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

See About remote health monitoring for more information about the Telemetry service.
Next steps
Validating an installation.

Customize your cluster.

If necessary, you can opt out of remote health reporting.

If necessary, you can remove cloud provider credentials.