Uninstalling a cluster on AWS

You can remove a cluster that you deployed to Amazon Web Services (AWS).
Removing a cluster that uses installer-provisioned infrastructure
You can remove a cluster that uses installer-provisioned infrastructure from your cloud.

After uninstallation, check your cloud provider for any resources not removed properly, especially with User Provisioned Infrastructure (UPI) clusters. There might be resources that the installer did not create or that the installer is unable to access.
You have a copy of the installation program that you used to deploy the cluster.

You have the files that the installation program generated when you created your
cluster.


From the directory that contains the installation program on the computer that you used to install the cluster, run the following command:

Optional: Delete the <installation_directory> directory and the
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program.
Deleting Amazon Web Services resources with the Cloud Credential Operator utility
After uninstalling an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster that uses short-term credentials managed outside the cluster, you can use the CCO utility (ccoctl) to remove the Amazon Web Services (AWS) resources that ccoctl created during installation.

Extract and prepare the ccoctl binary.

Uninstall an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on AWS that uses short-term credentials.


Delete the AWS resources that ccoctl created by running the following command:


To verify that the resources are deleted, query AWS. For more information, refer to AWS documentation.
Deleting a cluster with a configured AWS Local Zone infrastructure
After you install a cluster on Amazon Web Services (AWS) into an existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), and you set subnets for each Local Zone location, you can delete the cluster and any AWS resources associated with it.

The example in the procedure assumes that you created a VPC and its subnets by using a CloudFormation template.

You know the name of the CloudFormation stacks, <local_zone_stack_name> and <vpc_stack_name>, that were used during the creation of the network. You need the name of the stack to delete the cluster.

You have access rights to the directory that contains the installation files that were created by the installation program.

Your account includes a policy that provides you with permissions to delete the CloudFormation stack.


Change to the directory that contains the stored installation program, and delete the cluster by using the destroy cluster command:

Delete the CloudFormation stack for the Local Zone subnet:

Delete the stack of resources that represent the VPC:


Check that you removed the stack resources by issuing the following commands in the AWS CLI. The AWS CLI outputs that no template component exists.


See Working with stacks in the AWS documentation for more information about AWS CloudFormation stacks.

Opt into AWS Local Zones

AWS Local Zones available locations

AWS Local Zones features