Using Insights to identify issues with your cluster

Insights repeatedly analyzes the data Insights Operator sends. Users of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform can display the report in the https://console.redhat.com/openshift/insights/advisor/ [Insights Advisor] service on Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console.
About Red Hat Insights Advisor for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
You can use Insights Advisor to assess and monitor the health of your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters. Whether you are concerned about individual clusters, or with your whole infrastructure, it is important to be aware of the exposure of your cluster infrastructure to issues that can affect service availability, fault tolerance, performance, or security.

Using cluster data collected by the Insights Operator, Insights repeatedly compares that data against a library of recommendations. Each recommendation is a set of cluster-environment conditions that can leave Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters at risk. The results of the Insights analysis are available in the Insights Advisor service on Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console. In the Console, you can perform the following actions:

See clusters impacted by a specific recommendation.

Use robust filtering capabilities to refine your results to those recommendations.

Learn more about individual recommendations, details about the risks they present, and get resolutions tailored to your individual clusters.

Share results with other stakeholders.
Understanding Insights Advisor recommendations
Insights Advisor bundles information about various cluster states and component configurations that can negatively affect the service availability, fault tolerance, performance, or security of your clusters. This information set is called a recommendation in Insights Advisor and includes the following information:

Name: A concise description of the recommendation

Added: When the recommendation was published to the Insights Advisor archive

Category: Whether the issue has the potential to negatively affect service availability, fault tolerance, performance, or security

Total risk: A value derived from the likelihood that the condition will negatively affect your infrastructure, and the impact on operations if that were to happen

Clusters: A list of clusters on which a recommendation is detected

Description: A brief synopsis of the issue, including how it affects your clusters

Link to associated topics: More information from Red Hat about the issue
Displaying potential issues with your cluster
This section describes how to display the Insights report in Insights Advisor on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Note that Insights repeatedly analyzes your cluster and shows the latest results. These results can change, for example, if you fix an issue or a new issue has been detected.

Your cluster is registered on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Remote health reporting is enabled, which is the default.

You are logged in to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].


Navigate to Advisor -> Recommendations on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

If any issues are displayed, click the > icon in front of the entry for more details.
Displaying all Insights Advisor recommendations
The Recommendations view, by default, only displays the recommendations that are detected on your clusters. However, you can view all of the recommendations in the advisor archive.

Remote health reporting is enabled, which is the default.

Your cluster is registered on Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console.

You are logged in to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].


Navigate to Advisor -> Recommendations on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Click the X icons next to the Clusters Impacted and Status filters.
Advisor recommendation filters
The Insights advisor service can return a large number of recommendations. To focus on your most critical recommendations, you can apply filters to the Advisor recommendations list to remove low-priority recommendations.

By default, filters are set to only show enabled recommendations that are impacting one or more clusters. To view all or disabled recommendations in the Insights library, you can customize the filters.

To apply a filter, select a filter type and then set its value based on the options that are available in the drop-down list. You can apply multiple filters to the list of recommendations.

You can set the following filter types:

Name: Search for a recommendation by name.

Total risk: Select one or more values from Critical, Important, Moderate, and Low indicating the likelihood and the severity of a negative impact on a cluster.

Impact: Select one or more values from Critical, High, Medium, and Low indicating the potential impact to the continuity of cluster operations.

Likelihood: Select one or more values from Critical, High, Medium, and Low indicating the potential for a negative impact to a cluster if the recommendation comes to fruition.

Category: Select one or more categories from Service Availability, Performance, Fault Tolerance, Security, and Best Practice to focus your attention on.

Status: Click a radio button to show enabled recommendations (default), disabled recommendations, or all recommendations.

Clusters impacted: Set the filter to show recommendations currently impacting one or more clusters, non-impacting recommendations, or all recommendations.

Risk of change: Select one or more values from High, Moderate, Low, and Very low indicating the risk that the implementation of the resolution could have on cluster operations.


Filtering Insights advisor recommendations
As an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster manager, you can filter the recommendations that are displayed on the recommendations list. By applying filters, you can reduce the number of reported recommendations and concentrate on your highest priority recommendations.

The following procedure demonstrates how to set and remove Category filters; however, the procedure is applicable to any of the filter types and respective values.

You are logged in to the OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console.

Go to Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console -> OpenShift -> Advisor recommendations.

In the main, filter-type drop-down list, select the Category filter type.

Expand the filter-value drop-down list and select the checkbox next to each category of recommendation you want to view. Leave the checkboxes for unnecessary categories clear.

Optional: Add additional filters to further refine the list.


Only recommendations from the selected categories are shown in the list.

After applying filters, you can view the updated recommendations list. The applied filters are added next to the default filters.
Removing filters from Insights Advisor recommendations
You can apply multiple filters to the list of recommendations. When ready, you can remove them individually or completely reset them.

Click the X icon next to each filter, including the default filters, to remove them individually.


Click Reset filters to remove only the filters that you applied, leaving the default filters in place.
Disabling Insights Advisor recommendations
You can disable specific recommendations that affect your clusters, so that they no longer appear in your reports. It is possible to disable a recommendation for a single cluster or all of your clusters.

Disabling a recommendation for all of your clusters also applies to any future clusters.
Remote health reporting is enabled, which is the default.

Your cluster is registered on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

You are logged in to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].


Navigate to Advisor -> Recommendations on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Optional: Use the Clusters Impacted and Status filters as needed.

Disable an alert by using one of the following methods:
Enabling a previously disabled Insights Advisor recommendation
When a recommendation is disabled for all clusters, you no longer see the recommendation in the Insights Advisor. You can change this behavior.

Remote health reporting is enabled, which is the default.

Your cluster is registered on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

You are logged in to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].


Navigate to Advisor -> Recommendations on https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Filter the recommendations to display on the disabled recommendations:

Locate the recommendation to enable.

Click the Options menu ., and then click Enable recommendation.
Displaying the Insights status in the web console
Insights repeatedly analyzes your cluster and you can display the status of identified potential issues of your cluster in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console. This status shows the number of issues in the different categories and, for further details, links to the reports in https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Your cluster is registered in https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

Remote health reporting is enabled, which is the default.

You are logged in to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.


Navigate to Home -> Overview in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

Click Insights on the Status card.