Monitoring project and application metrics using the Developer perspective

The Observe view in the Developer perspective provides options to monitor your project or application metrics, such as CPU, memory, and bandwidth usage, and network related information.
Prerequisites
You have created and deployed applications on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

You have logged in to the web console and have switched to the Developer perspective.
Monitoring your project metrics
After you create applications in your project and deploy them, you can use the Developer perspective in the web console to see the metrics for your project.

Go to Observe to see the Dashboard, Metrics, Alerts, and Events for your project.

Optional: Use the Dashboard tab to see graphs depicting the following application metrics:

Optional: Use the Metrics tab to query for the required project metric.

Optional: Use the Alerts tab to do the following tasks:

Optional: Use the Events tab to see the events for your project.
Monitoring your application metrics
After you create applications in your project and deploy them, you can use the Topology view in the Developer perspective to see the alerts and metrics for your application. Critical and warning alerts for your application are indicated on the workload node in the Topology view.

To see the alerts for your workload:

In the Topology view, click the workload to see the workload details in the right panel.

Click the Observe tab to see the critical and warning alerts for the application; graphs for metrics, such as CPU, memory, and bandwidth usage; and all the events for the application.
Image vulnerabilities breakdown
In the Developer perspective, the project dashboard shows the Image Vulnerabilities link in the Status section. Using this link, you can view the Image Vulnerabilities breakdown window, which includes details regarding vulnerable container images and fixable container images. The icon color indicates severity:

Red: High priority. Fix immediately.

Orange: Medium priority. Can be fixed after high-priority vulnerabilities.

Yellow: Low priority. Can be fixed after high and medium-priority vulnerabilities.


Based on the severity level, you can prioritize vulnerabilities and fix them in an organized manner.
Monitoring your application and image vulnerabilities metrics
After you create applications in your project and deploy them, use the Developer perspective in the web console to see the metrics for your application dependency vulnerabilities across your cluster. The metrics help you to analyze the following image vulnerabilities in detail:

Total count of vulnerable images in a selected project

Severity-based counts of all vulnerable images in a selected project

Drilldown into severity to obtain the details, such as count of vulnerabilities, count of fixable vulnerabilities, and number of affected pods for each vulnerable image


You have installed the Red Hat Quay Container Security operator from the Operator Hub.


For a general overview of the image vulnerabilities, on the navigation panel of the Developer perspective, click Project to see the project dashboard.

Click Image Vulnerabilities in the Status section. The window that opens displays details such as Vulnerable Container Images and Fixable Container Images.

For a detailed vulnerabilities overview, click the Vulnerabilities tab on the project dashboard.
Additional resources
Monitoring overview