Viewing application composition by using the Topology view

The Topology view in the Developer perspective of the web console provides a visual representation of all the applications within a project, their build status, and the components and services associated with them.
Prerequisites
To view your applications in the Topology view and interact with them, ensure that:

You have logged in to the web console.

You have the appropriate roles and permissions in a project to create applications and other workloads in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

You have created and deployed an application on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" using the Developer perspective.

You are in the Developer perspective.
Viewing the topology of your application
You can navigate to the Topology view using the left navigation panel in the Developer perspective. After you deploy an application, you are directed automatically to the Graph view where you can see the status of the application pods, quickly access the application on a public URL, access the source code to modify it, and see the status of your last build. You can zoom in and out to see more details for a particular application.

The Topology view provides you the option to monitor your applications using the List view. Use the List view icon () to see a list of all your applications and use the Graph view icon () to switch back to the graph view.

You can customize the views as required using the following:

Use the Find by name field to find the required components. Search results may appear outside of the visible area; click Fit to Screen from the lower-left toolbar to resize the Topology view to show all components.

Use the Display Options drop-down list to configure the Topology view of the various application groupings. The options are available depending on the types of components deployed in the project:


The Topology view also provides you the Export application option to download your application in the ZIP file format. You can then import the downloaded application to another project or cluster. For more details, see Exporting an application to another project or cluster in the Additional resources section.
Interacting with applications and components
In the Topology view in the Developer perspective of the web console, the Graph view provides the following options to interact with applications and components:

Click Open URL () to see your application exposed by the route on a public URL.

Click Edit Source code to access your source code and modify it.

Hover your cursor over the lower left icon on the pod to see the name of the latest build and its status. The status of the application build is indicated as New (), Pending (), Running (), Completed (), Failed (), and Canceled ().

The status or phase of the pod is indicated by different colors and tooltips as:

After you create an application and an image is deployed, the status is shown as Pending. After the application is built, it is displayed as Running.
Scaling application pods and checking builds and routes
The Topology view provides the details of the deployed components in the Overview panel. You can use the Overview and Details tabs to scale the application pods, check build status, services, and routes as follows:

Click on the component node to see the Overview panel to the right. Use the Details tab to:

Click the Resources tab to:
Adding components to an existing project
You can add components to a project.

Navigate to the +Add view.

Click Add to Project () next to left navigation pane or press

Search for the component and click the Start/Create/Install button or click  to add the component to the project and see it in the topology Graph view.


Alternatively, you can also use the available  options in the context menu, such as Import from Git, Container Image, Database, From Catalog, Operator Backed, Helm Charts, Samples, or Upload JAR file, by right-clicking in the topology Graph view to add a component to your project.
Grouping multiple components within an application
You can use the +Add view to add multiple components or services to your project and use the topology Graph view to group applications and resources within an application group.

You have created and deployed minimum two or more components on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" using the Developer perspective.


To add a service to the existing application group, press + drag it to the existing application group. Dragging a component and adding it to an application group adds the required labels to the component.


Alternatively, you can also add the component to an application as follows:

Click the service pod to see the Overview panel to the right.

Click the Actions drop-down menu and select Edit Application Grouping.

In the Edit Application Grouping dialog box, click the Application drop-down list, and select an appropriate application group.

Click Save to add the service to the application group.


You can remove a component from an application group by selecting the component and using + drag to drag it out of the application group.
Adding services to your application
To add a service to your application use the +Add actions using the context menu in the topology Graph view.

In addition to the context menu, you can add services by using the sidebar or hovering and dragging the dangling arrow from the application group.
Right-click an application group in the topology Graph view to display the context menu.

Use Add to Application to select a method for adding a service to the application group, such as From Git, Container Image, From Dockerfile, From Devfile, Upload JAR file, Event Source, Channel, or Broker.

Complete the form for the method you choose and click Create. For example, to add a service based on the source code in your Git repository, choose the From Git method, fill in the Import from Git form, and click Create.
Removing services from your application
In the topology Graph view remove a service from your application using the context menu.

Right-click on a service in an application group in the topology Graph view to display the context menu.

Select Delete Deployment to delete the service.
Labels and annotations used for the Topology view
The Topology view uses the following labels and annotations:


Icon displayed in the node
Icons in the node are defined by looking for matching icons using the app.openshift.io/runtime label, followed by the app.kubernetes.io/name label. This matching is done using a predefined set of icons.
Link to the source code editor or the source
The app.openshift.io/vcs-uri annotation is used to create links to the source code editor.
Node Connector
The app.openshift.io/connects-to annotation is used to connect the nodes.
App grouping
The app.kubernetes.io/part-of=<appname> label is used to group the applications, services, and components.


For detailed information on the labels and annotations "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" applications must use, see Guidelines for labels and annotations for OpenShift applications.
Additional resources
See Importing a codebase from Git to create an application for more information on creating an application from Git.

See Connecting an application to a service using the Developer perspective.

See Exporting applications.