Deleting Operators from a cluster

The following describes how to delete, or uninstall, Operators that were previously installed using Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) on your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

You must successfully and completely uninstall an Operator prior to attempting to reinstall the same Operator. Failure to fully uninstall the Operator properly can leave resources, such as a project or namespace, stuck in a "Terminating" state and cause "error resolving resource" messages to be observed when trying to reinstall the Operator.

For more information, see Reinstalling Operators after failed uninstallation.
Deleting Operators from a cluster using the web console
Cluster administrators can delete installed Operators from a selected namespace by using the web console.

You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster web console using an account with


Navigate to the Operators → Installed Operators page.

Scroll or enter a keyword into the Filter by name field to find the Operator that you want to remove. Then, click on it.

On the right side of the Operator Details page, select Uninstall Operator from the Actions list.

Select Uninstall to remove the Operator, Operator deployments, and pods. Following this action, the Operator stops running and no longer receives updates.
Deleting Operators from a cluster using the CLI
Cluster administrators can delete installed Operators from a selected namespace by using the CLI.

You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster using an account with

The OpenShift CLI (oc) is installed on your workstation.


Ensure the latest version of the subscribed operator (for example, serverless-operator) is identified in the currentCSV field.

Delete the subscription (for example, serverless-operator):

Delete the CSV for the Operator in the target namespace using the currentCSV value from the previous step:
Refreshing failing subscriptions
In Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), if you subscribe to an Operator that references images that are not accessible on your network, you can find jobs in the openshift-marketplace namespace that are failing with the following errors:

ImagePullBackOff for
Back-off pulling image "example.com/openshift4/ose-elasticsearch-operator-bundle@sha256:6d2587129c846ec28d384540322b40b05833e7e00b25cca584e004af9a1d292e"
rpc error: code = Unknown desc = error pinging docker registry example.com: Get "https://example.com/v2/": dial tcp: lookup example.com on 10.0.0.1:53: no such host
As a result, the subscription is stuck in this failing state and the Operator is unable to install or upgrade.

You can refresh a failing subscription by deleting the subscription, cluster service version (CSV), and other related objects. After recreating the subscription, OLM then reinstalls the correct version of the Operator.

You have a failing subscription that is unable to pull an inaccessible bundle image.

You have confirmed that the correct bundle image is accessible.


Get the names of the Subscription and ClusterServiceVersion objects from the namespace where the Operator is installed:

Delete the subscription:

Delete the cluster service version:

Get the names of any failing jobs and related config maps in the openshift-marketplace namespace:

Delete the job:

Delete the config map:

Reinstall the Operator using OperatorHub in the web console.


Check that the Operator has been reinstalled successfully: