Configuring and viewing IP addresses

You can configure an IP address when you create a virtual machine (VM). The IP address is provisioned with cloud-init.

You can view the IP address of a VM by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console or the command line. The network information is collected by the QEMU guest agent.
Configuring IP addresses for virtual machines
You can configure a static IP address when you create a virtual machine (VM) by using the web console or the command line.

You can configure a dynamic IP address when you create a VM by using the command line.

The IP address is provisioned with cloud-init.

Configuring an IP address when creating a virtual machine by using the command line
You can configure a static or dynamic IP address when you create a virtual machine (VM). The IP address is provisioned with cloud-init.

If the VM is connected to the pod network, the pod network interface is the default route unless you update it.
The virtual machine is connected to a secondary network.

You have a DHCP server available on the secondary network to configure a dynamic IP for the virtual machine.


Edit the spec.template.spec.volumes.cloudInitNoCloud.networkData stanza of the virtual machine configuration:
Viewing IP addresses of virtual machines
You can view the IP address of a VM by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console or the command line.

The network information is collected by the QEMU guest agent.

Viewing the IP address of a virtual machine by using the web console
You can view the IP address of a virtual machine (VM) by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You must install the QEMU guest agent on a VM to view the IP address of a secondary network interface. A pod network interface does not require the QEMU guest agent.
In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console, click Virtualization -> VirtualMachines from the side menu.

Select a VM to open the VirtualMachine details page.

Click the Details tab to view the IP address.
Viewing the IP address of a virtual machine by using the command line
You can view the IP address of a virtual machine (VM) by using the command line.

You must install the QEMU guest agent on a VM to view the IP address of a secondary network interface. A pod network interface does not require the QEMU guest agent.
Obtain the virtual machine instance configuration by running the following command:
Additional resources
Installing the QEMU guest agent