Configuring system controls and interface attributes using the tuning plugin

In Linux, sysctl allows an administrator to modify kernel parameters at runtime. You can modify interface-level network sysctls using the tuning Container Network Interface (CNI) meta plugin. The tuning CNI meta plugin operates in a chain with a main CNI plugin as illustrated.


The main CNI plugin assigns the interface and passes this interface to the tuning CNI meta plugin at runtime. You can change some sysctls and several interface attributes such as promiscuous mode, all-multicast mode, MTU, and MAC address in the network namespace by using the tuning CNI meta plugin.
Configuring system controls by using the tuning CNI
The following procedure configures the tuning CNI to change the interface-level network net.ipv4.conf.IFNAME.accept_redirects sysctl. This example enables accepting and sending ICMP-redirected packets. In the tuning CNI meta plugin configuration, the interface name is represented by the IFNAME token and is replaced with the actual name of the interface at runtime.

Create a network attachment definition, such as tuning-example.yaml, with the following content:

Apply the YAML by running the following command:

Create a pod such as examplepod.yaml with the network attachment definition similar to the following:

Apply the yaml by running the following command:

Verify that the pod is created by running the following command:

Log in to the pod by running the following command:

Verify the values of the configured sysctl flags. For example, find the value net.ipv4.conf.net1.accept_redirects by running the following command:
Enabling all-multicast mode by using the tuning CNI
You can enable all-multicast mode by using the tuning Container Network Interface (CNI) meta plugin.

The following procedure describes how to configure the tuning CNI to enable the all-multicast mode.

Create a network attachment definition, such as tuning-example.yaml, with the following content:

Apply the settings specified in the YAML file by running the following command:

Create a pod with a network attachment definition similar to that specified in the following examplepod.yaml sample file:

Apply the settings specified in the YAML file by running the following command:

Verify that the pod is created by running the following command:

Log in to the pod by running the following command:

List all the interfaces associated with the pod by running the following command:
Additional resources
Using sysctls in containers

SR-IOV network node configuration object

Configuring interface-level network sysctl settings and all-multicast mode for SR-IOV networks