Configuring the cluster-wide proxy

Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform to use a proxy by modifying the Proxy object for existing clusters or by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file for new clusters.
Prerequisites
Review the sites that your cluster requires access to and determine whether any of them must bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster system egress traffic is proxied, including calls to the cloud provider API for the cloud that hosts your cluster. System-wide proxy affects system components only, not user workloads. Add sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.
Enabling the cluster-wide proxy
The Proxy object is used to manage the cluster-wide egress proxy. When a cluster is installed or upgraded without the proxy configured, a Proxy object is still generated but it will have a nil spec. For example:

apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: Proxy
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  trustedCA:
    name: ""
status:
A cluster administrator can configure the proxy for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform by modifying this cluster Proxy object.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Cluster administrator permissions

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform oc CLI tool installed


Create a config map that contains any additional CA certificates required for proxying HTTPS connections.

Use the oc edit command to modify the Proxy object:

Configure the necessary fields for the proxy:

Save the file to apply the changes.
Removing the cluster-wide proxy
The cluster Proxy object cannot be deleted. To remove the proxy from a cluster, remove all spec fields from the Proxy object.

Cluster administrator permissions

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform oc CLI tool installed


Use the oc edit command to modify the proxy:

Remove all spec fields from the Proxy object. For example:

Save the file to apply the changes.



Replacing the CA Bundle certificate

Proxy certificate customization