Accessing the registry

Use the following sections for instructions on accessing the registry, including viewing logs and metrics, as well as securing and exposing the registry.

You can access the registry directly to invoke podman commands. This allows you to push images to or pull them from the integrated registry directly using operations like podman push or podman pull. To do so, you must be logged in to the registry using the podman login command. The operations you can perform depend on your user permissions, as described in the following sections.
Prerequisites
You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You must have configured an identity provider (IDP).

For pulling images, for example when using the podman pull command,
the user must have the registry-viewer role. To add this role, run the following command:

For writing or pushing images, for example when using the podman push command:
Accessing the registry directly from the cluster
You can access the registry from inside the cluster.

Access the registry from the cluster by using internal routes:

Access the node by getting the node's name:

To enable access to tools such as oc and podman on the node, change your root directory to /host:

Log in to the container image registry by using your access token:

Perform podman pull and podman push operations against your registry:
Checking the status of the registry pods
As a cluster administrator, you can list the image registry pods running in the openshift-image-registry project and check their status.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


List the pods in the openshift-image-registry project and view their status:
Viewing registry logs
You can view the logs for the registry by using the oc logs command.

Use the oc logs command with deployments to view the logs for the container
image registry:
Accessing registry metrics
The OpenShift Container Registry provides an endpoint for Prometheus metrics. Prometheus is a stand-alone, open source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit.

The metrics are exposed at the /extensions/v2/metrics path of the registry endpoint.

You can access the metrics by running a metrics query using a cluster role.

Cluster role

Create a cluster role if you do not already have one to access the metrics:

Add this role to a user, run the following command:


Metrics query

Get the user token.

Run a metrics query in node or inside a pod, for example:
Additional resources
For more information on allowing pods in a project to reference images in another project, see Allowing pods to reference images across projects.

A kubeadmin can access the registry until deleted. See
Removing the kubeadmin user for
more information.

For more information on configuring an identity provider, see
Understanding identity provider configuration.