Uninstalling power monitoring

Power monitoring is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You can uninstall power monitoring by deleting the Kepler instance and then the Power monitoring Operator in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.
Deleting Kepler
You can delete Kepler by removing the Kepler instance of the Kepler custom resource definition (CRD) from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You are logged in as a user with the cluster-admin role.


In the Administrator perspective of the web console, go to Operators -> Installed Operators.

Click Power monitoring for Red Hat OpenShift from the Installed Operators list and go to the Kepler tab.

Locate the Kepler instance entry in the list.

Click . for this entry and select Delete Kepler.

In the Delete Kepler? dialog, click Delete to delete the Kepler instance.
Uninstalling the Power monitoring Operator
If you installed the Power monitoring Operator by using OperatorHub, you can uninstall it from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You are logged in as a user with the cluster-admin role.


Delete the Kepler instance.

Go to Operators → Installed Operators.

Locate the Power monitoring for Red Hat OpenShift entry in the list.

Click . for this entry and select Uninstall Operator.

In the Uninstall Operator? dialog, click Uninstall to uninstall the Power monitoring Operator.