Visualizing power monitoring metrics

Power monitoring is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You can visualize power monitoring metrics in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console by accessing power monitoring dashboards or by exploring Metrics under the Observe tab.
Power monitoring dashboards overview
There are two types of power monitoring dashboards. Both provide different levels of details around power consumption metrics for a single cluster:


With this dashboard, you can observe the following information:

An aggregated view of CPU architecture and its power source (rapl-sysfs, rapl-msr, or estimator) along with total nodes with this configuration

Total energy consumption by a cluster in the last 24 hours (measured in kilowatt-hour)

The amount of power consumed by the top 10 namespaces in a cluster in the last 24 hours

Detailed node information, such as its CPU architecture and component power source


These features allow you to effectively monitor the energy consumption of the cluster without needing to investigate each namespace separately.

Ensure that the Components Source column does not display estimator as the power source.


If Kepler is unable to obtain hardware power consumption metrics, the Components Source column displays estimator as the power source, which is not supported in Technology Preview. If that happens, then the values from the nodes are not accurate.

This dashboard allows you to view metrics by namespace and pod. You can observe the following information:

The power consumption metrics, such as consumption in DRAM and PKG

The energy consumption metrics in the last hour, such as consumption in DRAM and PKG for core and uncore components


This feature allows you to investigate key peaks and easily identify the primary root causes of high consumption.
Accessing power monitoring dashboards
You can access power monitoring dashboards from the Administrator perspective of the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You have access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You are logged in as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the Power monitoring Operator.

You have deployed Kepler in your cluster.

You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.


In the Administrator perspective of the web console, go to Observe -> Dashboards.

From the Dashboard drop-down list, select the power monitoring dashboard you want to see:
Power monitoring metrics overview
The Power monitoring Operator exposes the following metrics, which you can view by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console under the Observe -> Metrics tab.

This list of exposed metrics is not definitive. Metrics might be added or removed in future releases.
Additional resources
Enabling monitoring for user-defined projects