Backing up etcd

etcd is the key-value store for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, which persists the state of all resource objects.

Back up your cluster's etcd data regularly and store in a secure location ideally outside the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform environment. Do not take an etcd backup before the first certificate rotation completes, which occurs 24 hours after installation, otherwise the backup will contain expired certificates. It is also recommended to take etcd backups during non-peak usage hours because the etcd snapshot has a high I/O cost.

Be sure to take an etcd backup after you upgrade your cluster. This is important because when you restore your cluster, you must use an etcd backup that was taken from the same z-stream release. For example, an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.y.z cluster must use an etcd backup that was taken from 4.y.z.

Back up your cluster's etcd data by performing a single invocation of the backup script on a control plane host. Do not take a backup for each control plane host.
After you have an etcd backup, you can restore to a previous cluster state.
Backing up etcd data
Follow these steps to back up etcd data by creating an etcd snapshot and backing up the resources for the static pods. This backup can be saved and used at a later time if you need to restore etcd.

Only save a backup from a single control plane host. Do not take a backup from each control plane host in the cluster.
You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have checked whether the cluster-wide proxy is enabled.


Start a debug session as root for a control plane node:

Change your root directory to /host in the debug shell:

If the cluster-wide proxy is enabled, be sure that you have exported the NO_PROXY, HTTP_PROXY, and HTTPS_PROXY environment variables.

Run the cluster-backup.sh script in the debug shell and pass in the location to save the backup to.
Additional resources
Backing up and restoring etcd on a hosted cluster
Creating automated etcd backups
The automated backup feature for etcd supports both recurring and single backups. Recurring backups create a cron job that starts a single backup each time the job triggers.

Automating etcd backups is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Enabling automated etcd backups
Follow these steps to enable automated backups for etcd.

Enabling the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set on your cluster prevents minor version updates. The TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set cannot be disabled. Do not enable this feature set on production clusters.
You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have access to the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Create a FeatureGate custom resource (CR) file named enable-tech-preview-no-upgrade.yaml with the following contents:

Apply the CR and enable automated backups:

It takes time to enable the related APIs. Verify the creation of the custom resource definition (CRD) by running the following command:
Creating a single etcd backup
Follow these steps to create a single etcd backup by creating and applying a custom resource (CR).

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have access to the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have a PVC to save backup data to.


Create a CR file named etcd-single-backup.yaml with contents such as the following example:

Apply the CR to start a single backup:
Creating recurring etcd backups
Follow these steps to create automated recurring backups of etcd.

Use dynamically-provisioned storage to keep the created etcd backup data in a safe, external location if possible. If dynamically-provisioned storage is not available, consider storing the backup data on an NFS share to make backup recovery more accessible.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have access to the OpenShift CLI (oc).


If dynamically-provisioned storage is available, complete the following steps to create automated recurring backups:

If dynamically-provisioned storage is unavailable, create a local storage PVC by completing the following steps:

Create a custom resource definition (CRD) file named etcd-recurring-backups.yaml. The contents of the created CRD define the schedule and retention type of automated backups.

Create the cron job defined by the CRD by running the following command:

To find the created cron job, run the following command: