Default logging alerts

Logging alerts are installed as part of the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator installation. Alerts depend on metrics exported by the log collection and log storage backends. These metrics are enabled if you selected the option to Enable operator recommended cluster monitoring on this namespace when installing the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator. For more information about installing logging Operators, see Installing logging using the web console.

Default logging alerts are sent to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" monitoring stack Alertmanager in the openshift-monitoring namespace, unless you have disabled the local Alertmanager instance.
Accessing the Alerting UI in the Administrator and Developer perspectives
The Alerting UI is accessible through the Administrator perspective and the Developer perspective of the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

In the Administrator perspective, go to Observe -> Alerting. The three main pages in the Alerting UI in this perspective are the Alerts, Silences, and Alerting rules pages.


In the Developer perspective, go to Observe -> <project_name> -> Alerts. In this perspective, alerts, silences, and alerting rules are all managed from the Alerts page. The results shown in the Alerts page are specific to the selected project.


In the Developer perspective, you can select from core "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" and user-defined projects that you have access to in the Project: <project_name> list. However, alerts, silences, and alerting rules relating to core "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" projects are not displayed if you are not logged in as a cluster administrator.
Vector collector alerts
In logging 5.7 and later versions, the following alerts are generated by the Vector collector. You can view these alerts in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.
Fluentd collector alerts
The following alerts are generated by the legacy Fluentd log collector. You can view these alerts in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.
Elasticsearch alerting rules
You can view these alerting rules in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.
Additional resources
Modifying core platform alerting rules