Configuring custom Helm chart repositories

You can create Helm releases on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster using the following methods:

The CLI.

The Developer perspective of the web console.


The Developer Catalog, in the Developer perspective of the web console, displays the Helm charts available in the cluster. By default, it lists the Helm charts from the Red Hat OpenShift Helm chart repository. For a list of the charts, see the Red Hat Helm index file.

As a cluster administrator, you can add multiple cluster-scoped and namespace-scoped Helm chart repositories, separate from the default cluster-scoped Helm repository, and display the Helm charts from these repositories in the Developer Catalog.

As a regular user or project member with the appropriate role-based access control (RBAC) permissions, you can add multiple namespace-scoped Helm chart repositories, apart from the default cluster-scoped Helm repository, and display the Helm charts from these repositories in the Developer Catalog.

In the Developer perspective of the web console, you can use the Helm page to:

Create Helm Releases and Repositories using the Create button.

Create, update, or delete a cluster-scoped or namespace-scoped Helm chart repository.

View the list of the existing Helm chart repositories in the Repositories tab, which can also be easily distinguished as either cluster scoped or namespace scoped.
Installing a Helm chart on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster
You have a running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster and you have logged into it.

You have installed Helm.


Create a new project:

Add a repository of Helm charts to your local Helm client:

Update the repository:

Install an example HashiCorp Vault:

Verify that the chart has installed successfully:
Creating Helm releases using the Developer perspective
You can use either the Developer perspective in the web console or the CLI to select and create a release from the Helm charts listed in the Developer Catalog. You can create Helm releases by installing Helm charts and see them in the Developer perspective of the web console.

You have logged in to the web console and have switched to the Developer perspective.


To create Helm releases from the Helm charts provided in the Developer Catalog:

In the Developer perspective, navigate to the +Add view and select a project. Then click Helm Chart option to see all the Helm Charts in the Developer Catalog.

Select a chart and read the description, README, and other details about the chart.

Click Create.

In the Create Helm Release page:


You can upgrade, rollback, or delete a Helm release by using the Actions button on the side panel or by right-clicking a Helm release.
Using Helm in the web terminal
You can use Helm by Accessing the web terminal in the Developer perspective of the web console.
Creating a custom Helm chart on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
Create a new project:

Download an example Node.js chart that contains Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform objects:

Go to the directory with the sample chart:

Edit the Chart.yaml file  and add a description of your chart:

Verify that the chart is formatted properly:

Navigate to the previous directory level:

Install the chart:

Verify that the chart has installed successfully:
Adding custom Helm chart repositories
As a cluster administrator, you can add custom Helm chart repositories to your cluster and enable access to the Helm charts from these repositories in the Developer Catalog.

To add a new Helm Chart Repository, you must add the Helm Chart Repository custom resource (CR) to your cluster.

Navigate to  the Developer Catalog in the web console to verify that the Helm charts from the chart repository are displayed.
Adding namespace-scoped custom Helm chart repositories
The cluster-scoped HelmChartRepository custom resource definition (CRD) for Helm repository provides the ability for administrators to add Helm repositories as custom resources. The namespace-scoped ProjectHelmChartRepository CRD allows project members with the appropriate role-based access control (RBAC) permissions to create Helm repository resources of their choice but scoped to their namespace. Such project members can see charts from both cluster-scoped and namespace-scoped Helm repository resources.

Administrators can limit users from creating namespace-scoped Helm repository resources. By limiting users, administrators have the flexibility to control the RBAC through a namespace role instead of a cluster role. This avoids unnecessary permission elevation for the user and prevents access to unauthorized services or applications.

The addition of the namespace-scoped Helm repository does not impact the behavior of the existing cluster-scoped Helm repository.
As a regular user or project member with the appropriate RBAC permissions, you can add custom namespace-scoped Helm chart repositories to your cluster and enable access to the Helm charts from these repositories in the Developer Catalog.

To add a new namespace-scoped Helm Chart Repository, you must add the Helm Chart Repository custom resource (CR) to your namespace.

Navigate to  the Developer Catalog in the web console to verify that the Helm charts from the chart repository are displayed in your my-namespace namespace.
Creating credentials and CA certificates to add Helm chart repositories
Some Helm chart repositories need credentials and custom certificate authority (CA) certificates to connect to it. You can use the web console as well as the CLI to add credentials and certificates.

To configure the credentials and certificates, and then add a Helm chart repository using the CLI:

In the openshift-config namespace, create a ConfigMap object with a custom CA certificate in PEM encoded format, and store it under the ca-bundle.crt key within the config map:

In the openshift-config namespace, create a Secret object to add the client TLS configurations:

Add the Helm repository as follows:

By default, all authenticated users have access to all configured charts. However, for chart repositories where certificates are needed, you must provide users with read access to the helm-ca-cert config map and helm-tls-configs secret in the openshift-config namespace, as follows:
Filtering Helm Charts by their certification level
You can filter Helm charts based on their certification level in the Developer Catalog.

In the Developer perspective, navigate to the +Add view and select a project.

From the Developer Catalog tile, select the Helm Chart option to see all the Helm charts in the Developer Catalog.

Use the filters to the left of the list of Helm charts to filter the required charts:


The Source filter will not be visible when there is only one provider type.
You can now select the required chart and install it.
Disabling Helm Chart repositories
You can disable Helm Charts from a particular Helm Chart Repository in the catalog by setting the disabled property in the HelmChartRepository custom resource to true.

To disable a Helm Chart repository by using CLI, add the disabled: true flag to the custom resource. For example, to remove an Azure sample chart repository, run:

To disable a recently added Helm Chart repository by using Web Console: