Virtual machine health checks

You can configure virtual machine (VM) health checks by defining readiness and liveness probes in the VirtualMachine resource.
About readiness and liveness probes
Use readiness and liveness probes to detect and handle unhealthy virtual machines (VMs). You can include one or more probes in the specification of the VM to ensure that traffic does not reach a VM that is not ready for it and that a new VM is created when a VM becomes unresponsive.

A readiness probe determines whether a VM is ready to accept service requests. If the probe fails, the VM is removed from the list of available endpoints until the VM is ready.

A liveness probe determines whether a VM is responsive. If the probe fails, the VM is deleted and a new VM is created to restore responsiveness.

You can configure readiness and liveness probes by setting the spec.readinessProbe and the spec.livenessProbe fields of the VirtualMachine object. These fields support the following tests:


HTTP GET
The probe determines the health of the VM by using a web hook. The test is successful if the HTTP response code is between 200 and 399. You can use an HTTP GET test with applications that return HTTP status codes when they are completely initialized.
TCP socket
The probe attempts to open a socket to the VM. The VM is only considered healthy if the probe can establish a connection. You can use a TCP socket test with applications that do not start listening until initialization is complete.
Guest agent ping
The probe uses the guest-ping command to determine if the QEMU guest agent is running on the virtual machine.


Defining an HTTP readiness probe
Define an HTTP readiness probe by setting the spec.readinessProbe.httpGet field of the virtual machine (VM) configuration.

Include details of the readiness probe in the VM configuration file.

Create the VM by running the following command:
Defining a TCP readiness probe
Define a TCP readiness probe by setting the spec.readinessProbe.tcpSocket field of the virtual machine (VM) configuration.

Include details of the TCP readiness probe in the VM configuration file.

Create the VM by running the following command:
Defining an HTTP liveness probe
Define an HTTP liveness probe by setting the spec.livenessProbe.httpGet field of the virtual machine (VM) configuration. You can define both HTTP and TCP tests for liveness probes in the same way as readiness probes. This procedure configures a sample liveness probe with an HTTP GET test.

Include details of the HTTP liveness probe in the VM configuration file.

Create the VM by running the following command:
Defining a watchdog
You can define a watchdog to monitor the health of the guest operating system by performing the following steps:

Configure a watchdog device for the virtual machine (VM).

Install the watchdog agent on the guest.


The watchdog device monitors the agent and performs one of the following actions if the guest operating system is unresponsive:

poweroff: The VM powers down immediately. If spec.running is set to true or spec.runStrategy is not set to manual, then the VM reboots.

reset: The VM reboots in place and the guest operating system cannot react.

shutdown: The VM gracefully powers down by stopping all services.


Watchdog is not available for Windows VMs.
Configuring a watchdog device for the virtual machine
You configure a watchdog device for the virtual machine (VM).

The VM must have kernel support for an i6300esb watchdog device. Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) images support i6300esb.


Create a YAML file with the following contents:

Apply the YAML file to your cluster by running the following command:


This procedure is provided for testing watchdog functionality only and must not be run on production machines.
Run the following command to verify that the VM is connected to the watchdog device:

Run one of the following commands to confirm the watchdog is active:
Installing the watchdog agent on the guest
You install the watchdog agent on the guest and start the watchdog service.

Log in to the virtual machine as root user.

Install the watchdog package and its dependencies:

Uncomment the following line in the /etc/watchdog.conf file and save the changes:

Enable the watchdog service to start on boot:
Defining a guest agent ping probe
Define a guest agent ping probe by setting the spec.readinessProbe.guestAgentPing field of the virtual machine (VM) configuration.

The guest agent ping probe is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
The QEMU guest agent must be installed and enabled on the virtual machine.


Include details of the guest agent ping probe in the VM configuration file. For example:

Create the VM by running the following command:
Additional resources
Monitoring application health by using health checks