OADP Data Mover Introduction

OADP Data Mover allows you to restore stateful applications from the store if a failure, accidental deletion, or corruption of the cluster occurs.

The OADP 1.2 Data Mover is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You can use OADP Data Mover to back up Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume snapshots to a remote object store. See Using Data Mover for CSI snapshots.

You can use OADP 1.2 Data Mover to back up and restore application data for clusters that use CephFS, CephRBD, or both. See Using OADP 1.2 Data Mover with Ceph storage.


Post-migration hooks are not likely to work well with the OADP 1.3 Data Mover.

The OADP 1.2 Data Mover uses synchronous processes to back up and restore application data. Because the processes are synchronous, users can be sure that any post-restore hooks start only after the persistent volumes (PVs) of the related pods are released by the persistent volume claim (PVC) of the Data Mover.

However, the OADP 1.3 Data Mover uses an asynchronous process. As a result of this difference in sequencing, a post-restore hook might be called before the related PVs were released by the PVC of the Data Mover. If this happens, the pod remains in Pending status and cannot run the hook. The hook attempt might time out before the pod is released, leading to a PartiallyFailed restore operation.
OADP Data Mover prerequisites
You have a stateful application running in a separate namespace.

You have installed the OADP Operator by using Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM).

You have created an appropriate VolumeSnapshotClass and StorageClass.

You have installed the VolSync operator using OLM.