AWS Load Balancer Operator release notes

The AWS Load Balancer (ALB) Operator deploys and manages an instance of the AWSLoadBalancerController resource.

These release notes track the development of the AWS Load Balancer Operator in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

For an overview of the AWS Load Balancer Operator, see AWS Load Balancer Operator in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

AWS Load Balancer Operator currently does not support AWS GovCloud.
AWS Load Balancer Operator 1.1.1
The following advisory is available for the AWS Load Balancer Operator version 1.1.1:

RHEA-2024:0555 Release of AWS Load Balancer Operator 1.1.z on OperatorHub
AWS Load Balancer Operator 1.1.0
The AWS Load Balancer Operator version 1.1.0 supports the AWS Load Balancer Controller version 2.4.4.

The following advisory is available for the AWS Load Balancer Operator version 1.1.0:

RHEA-2023:6218 Release of AWS Load Balancer Operator on OperatorHub Enhancement Advisory Update


Notable changes
This release uses the Kubernetes API version 0.27.2.
New features
The AWS Load Balancer Operator now supports a standardized Security Token Service (STS) flow by using the Cloud Credential Operator.
Bug fixes
A FIPS-compliant cluster must use TLS version 1.2. Previously, webhooks for the AWS Load Balancer Controller only accepted TLS 1.3 as the minimum version, resulting in an error such as the following on a FIPS-compliant cluster:
AWS Load Balancer Operator 1.0.1
The following advisory is available for the AWS Load Balancer Operator version 1.0.1:

Release of AWS Load Balancer Operator 1.0.1 on OperatorHub
AWS Load Balancer Operator 1.0.0
The AWS Load Balancer Operator is now generally available with this release. The AWS Load Balancer Operator version 1.0.0 supports the AWS Load Balancer Controller version 2.4.4.

The following advisory is available for the AWS Load Balancer Operator version 1.0.0:

RHEA-2023:1954 Release of AWS Load Balancer Operator on OperatorHub Enhancement Advisory Update


The AWS Load Balancer (ALB) Operator version 1.x.x cannot upgrade automatically from the Technology Preview version 0.x.x. To upgrade from an earlier version, you must uninstall the ALB operands and delete the aws-load-balancer-operator namespace.
Notable changes
This release uses the new v1 API version.
Bug fixes
Previously, the controller provisioned by the AWS Load Balancer Operator did not properly use the configuration for the cluster-wide proxy.
These settings are now applied appropriately to the controller.
(OCPBUGS-4052, OCPBUGS-5295)
Earlier versions
The two earliest versions of the AWS Load Balancer Operator are available as a Technology Preview. These versions should not be used in a production cluster. For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.

The following advisory is available for the AWS Load Balancer Operator version 0.2.0:

RHEA-2022:9084 Release of AWS Load Balancer Operator on OperatorHub Enhancement Advisory Update


The following advisory is available for the AWS Load Balancer Operator version 0.0.1:

RHEA-2022:5780 Release of AWS Load Balancer Operator on OperatorHub Enhancement Advisory Update