Installation configuration parameters for Nutanix

Before you deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on Nutanix, you provide parameters to customize your cluster and the platform that hosts it. When you create the install-config.yaml file, you provide values for the required parameters through the command line. You can then modify the install-config.yaml file to customize your cluster further.
Available installation configuration parameters for Nutanix
The following tables specify the required, optional, and Nutanix-specific installation configuration parameters that you can set as part of the installation process.

After installation, you cannot modify these parameters in the install-config.yaml file.
Required configuration parameters
Required installation configuration parameters are described in the following table:
Network configuration parameters
You can customize your installation configuration based on the requirements of your existing network infrastructure. For example, you can expand the IP address block for the cluster network or provide different IP address blocks than the defaults.

Only IPv4 addresses are supported.

Globalnet is not supported with Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation disaster recovery solutions. For regional disaster recovery scenarios, ensure that you use a nonoverlapping range of private IP addresses for the cluster and service networks in each cluster.
Optional configuration parameters
Optional installation configuration parameters are described in the following table:


Not all CCO modes are supported for all cloud providers. For more information about CCO modes, see the "Managing cloud provider credentials" entry in the Authentication and authorization content.
Additional Nutanix configuration parameters
Additional Nutanix configuration parameters are described in the following table:


The prismElements section holds a list of Prism Elements (clusters). A Prism Element encompasses all of the Nutanix resources, for example virtual machines and subnets, that are used to host the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

Only one subnet per Prism Element in an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster is supported.