Using the Cluster Samples Operator with an alternate registry

You can use the Cluster Samples Operator with an alternate registry by first creating a mirror registry.

You must have access to the internet to obtain the necessary container images. In this procedure, you place the mirror registry on a mirror host that has access to both your network and the internet.
About the mirror registry
You can mirror the images that are required for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and subsequent product updates to a container mirror registry such as Red Hat Quay, JFrog Artifactory, Sonatype Nexus Repository, or Harbor. If you do not have access to a large-scale container registry, you can use the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, a small-scale container registry included with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscriptions.

You can use any container registry that supports Docker v2-2, such as Red Hat Quay, the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, Artifactory, Sonatype Nexus Repository, or Harbor. Regardless of your chosen registry, the procedure to mirror content from Red Hat hosted sites on the internet to an isolated image registry is the same. After you mirror the content, you configure each cluster to retrieve this content from your mirror registry.

The OpenShift image registry cannot be used as the target registry because it does not support pushing without a tag, which is required during the mirroring process.
If choosing a container registry that is not the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, it must be reachable by every machine in the clusters that you provision. If the registry is unreachable, installation, updating, or normal operations such as workload relocation might fail. For that reason, you must run mirror registries in a highly available way, and the mirror registries must at least match the production availability of your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters.

When you populate your mirror registry with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform images, you can follow two scenarios. If you have a host that can access both the internet and your mirror registry, but not your cluster nodes, you can directly mirror the content from that machine. This process is referred to as connected mirroring. If you have no such host, you must mirror the images to a file system and then bring that host or removable media into your restricted environment. This process is referred to as disconnected mirroring.

For mirrored registries, to view the source of pulled images, you must review the Trying to access log entry in the CRI-O logs. Other methods to view the image pull source, such as using the crictl images command on a node, show the non-mirrored image name, even though the image is pulled from the mirrored location.

Red Hat does not test third party registries with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
For information on viewing the CRI-O logs to view the image source, see Viewing the image pull source.

Preparing the mirror host
Before you create the mirror registry, you must prepare the mirror host.
Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to interact with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15. Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Configuring credentials that allow images to be mirrored
Create a container image registry credentials file that allows mirroring images from Red Hat to your mirror.

You configured a mirror registry to use in your disconnected environment.


Complete the following steps on the installation host:

Download your registry.redhat.io https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager].

Make a copy of your pull secret in JSON format:

Generate the base64-encoded user name and password or token for your mirror registry:

Edit the JSON
file and add a section that describes your registry to it:
Mirroring the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image repository
Mirror the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image repository to your registry to use during cluster installation or upgrade.

Your mirror host has access to the internet.

You configured a mirror registry to use in your restricted network and
can access the certificate and credentials that you configured.

You downloaded the https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager] and modified it to include authentication to your mirror repository.

If you use self-signed certificates, you have specified a Subject Alternative Name in the certificates.


Complete the following steps on the mirror host:

Review the
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page
to determine the version of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform that you want to install and determine the corresponding tag on the Repository Tags page.

Set the required environment variables:

Mirror the version images to the mirror registry:

To create the installation program that is based on the content that you
mirrored, extract it and pin it to the release:

For clusters using installer-provisioned infrastructure, run the following command:
Using Cluster Samples Operator image streams with alternate or mirrored registries
Most image streams in the openshift namespace managed by the Cluster Samples Operator point to images located in the Red Hat registry at registry.redhat.io.

The cli, installer, must-gather, and tests image streams, while part of the install payload, are not managed by the Cluster Samples Operator. These are not addressed in this procedure.
The Cluster Samples Operator must be set to Managed in a disconnected environment. To install the image streams, you have a mirrored registry.
Access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

Create a pull secret for your mirror registry.


Access the images of a specific image stream to mirror, for example:

Mirror images from registry.redhat.io associated with any image streams you need

Create the cluster's image configuration object:

Add the required trusted CAs for the mirror in the cluster's image
configuration object:

Update the samplesRegistry field in the Cluster Samples Operator configuration object
to contain the hostname portion of the mirror location defined in the mirror
configuration:

Add any image streams that are not mirrored into the skippedImagestreams field
of the Cluster Samples Operator configuration object. Or if you do not want to support
any of the sample image streams, set the Cluster Samples Operator to Removed in the
Cluster Samples Operator configuration object.


Cluster Samples Operator assistance for mirroring
During installation, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform creates a config map named imagestreamtag-to-image in the openshift-cluster-samples-operator namespace. The imagestreamtag-to-image config map contains an entry, the populating image, for each image stream tag.

The format of the key for each entry in the data field in the config map is <image_stream_name>_<image_stream_tag_name>.

During a disconnected installation of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, the status of the Cluster Samples Operator is set to Removed. If you choose to change it to Managed, it installs samples.

The use of samples in a network-restricted or discontinued environment may require access to services external to your network. Some example services include: Github, Maven Central, npm, RubyGems, PyPi and others. There might be additional steps to take that allow the cluster samples operators's objects to reach the services they require.
You can use this config map as a reference for which images need to be mirrored for your image streams to import.

While the Cluster Samples Operator is set to Removed, you can create your mirrored registry, or determine which existing mirrored registry you want to use.

Mirror the samples you want to the mirrored registry using the new config map as your guide.

Add any of the image streams you did not mirror to the skippedImagestreams list of the Cluster Samples Operator configuration object.

Set samplesRegistry of the Cluster Samples Operator configuration object to the mirrored registry.

Then set the Cluster Samples Operator to Managed to install the image streams you have mirrored.


See Using Cluster Samples Operator image streams with alternate or mirrored registries for a detailed procedure.