Operators overview

Operators are among the most important components of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". Operators are the preferred method of packaging, deploying, and managing services on the control plane. They can also provide advantages to applications that users run.

Operators integrate with Kubernetes APIs and CLI tools such as kubectl and oc commands. They provide the means of monitoring applications, performing health checks, managing over-the-air (OTA) updates, and ensuring that applications remain in your specified state.

While both follow similar Operator concepts and goals, Operators in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" are managed by two different systems, depending on their purpose:

Cluster Operators, which are managed by the Cluster Version Operator (CVO), are installed by default to perform cluster functions.

Optional add-on Operators, which are managed by Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), can be made accessible for users to run in their applications.


With Operators, you can create applications to monitor the running services in the cluster. Operators are designed specifically for your applications. Operators implement and automate the common Day 1 operations such as installation and configuration as well as Day 2 operations such as autoscaling up and down and creating backups. All these activities are in a piece of software running inside your cluster.
For developers
As a developer, you can perform the following Operator tasks:

Install Operator SDK CLI.

Create Go-based Operators, Ansible-based Operators, Java-based Operators, and Helm-based Operators.

Use Operator SDK to build, test, and deploy an Operator.

Install and subscribe an Operator to your namespace.

Create an application from an installed Operator through the web console.


Machine deletion lifecycle hook examples for Operator developers
For administrators
As a cluster administrator, you can perform the following Operator tasks:

Manage custom catalogs.

Allow non-cluster administrators to install Operators.

Install an Operator from OperatorHub.

View Operator status.

Manage Operator conditions.

Upgrade installed Operators.

Delete installed Operators.

Configure proxy support.

Use Operator Lifecycle Manager on restricted networks.


To know all about the cluster Operators that Red Hat provides, see Cluster Operators reference.
Next steps
To understand more about Operators, see What are Operators?