Usage of oc and kubectl commands
The Kubernetes command-line interface (CLI), kubectl, can be used to run commands against a Kubernetes cluster. Because Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is a certified Kubernetes distribution, you can use the supported kubectl binaries that ship with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform , or you can gain extended functionality by using the oc binary.
The oc binary
The oc binary offers the same capabilities as the kubectl binary, but it extends to natively support additional Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform features, including:

Full support for
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
resources

Authentication

Additional commands


If you installed an earlier version of the oc binary, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15 . If you want the latest features, you must download and install the latest version of the oc binary corresponding to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform server version.
Non-security API changes will involve, at minimum, two minor releases (4.1 to 4.2 to 4.3, for example) to allow older oc binaries to update. Using new capabilities might require newer oc binaries. A 4.3 server might have additional capabilities that a 4.2 oc binary cannot use and a 4.3 oc binary might have additional capabilities that are unsupported by a 4.2 server.


 Fully compatible.

 oc client might not be able to access server features.

 oc client might provide options and features that might not be compatible with the accessed server.
The kubectl binary
The kubectl binary is provided as a means to support existing workflows and scripts for new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform users coming from a standard Kubernetes environment, or for those who prefer to use the kubectl CLI. Existing users of kubectl can continue to use the binary to interact with Kubernetes primitives, with no changes required to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

You can install the supported kubectl binary by following the steps to Install the OpenShift CLI. The kubectl binary is included in the archive if you download the binary, or is installed when you install the CLI by using an RPM.

For more information, see the kubectl documentation.