Troubleshooting node network configuration

If the node network configuration encounters an issue, the policy is automatically rolled back and the enactments report failure. This includes issues such as:

The configuration fails to be applied on the host.

The host loses connection to the default gateway.

The host loses connection to the API server.
Troubleshooting an incorrect node network configuration policy configuration
You can apply changes to the node network configuration across your entire cluster by applying a node network configuration policy. If you apply an incorrect configuration, you can use the following example to troubleshoot and correct the failed node network policy.

In this example, a Linux bridge policy is applied to an example cluster that has three control plane nodes and three compute nodes. The policy fails to be applied because it references an incorrect interface. To find the error, investigate the available NMState resources. You can then update the policy with the correct configuration.

Create a policy and apply it to your cluster. The following example creates a simple bridge on the ens01 interface:

Verify the status of the policy by running the following command:

List the node network configuration enactments to see if the policy was successful on any of the nodes. If the policy failed for only a subset of nodes, it suggests that the problem is with a specific node configuration. If the policy failed on all nodes, it suggests that the problem is with the policy.

View one of the failed enactments and look at the traceback. The following command uses the output tool jsonpath to filter the output:

To ensure that the policy is configured properly, view the network configuration for one or all of the nodes by requesting the NodeNetworkState object. The following command returns the network configuration for the control-plane-1 node:

Correct the error by editing the existing policy:

Check the status of the policy to ensure it updated successfully:


The updated policy is successfully configured on all nodes in the cluster.