Configuring the registry for vSphere

Image registry removed during installation
On platforms that do not provide shareable object storage, the OpenShift Image Registry Operator bootstraps itself as Removed. This allows openshift-installer to complete installations on these platform types.

After installation, you must edit the Image Registry Operator configuration to switch the managementState from Removed to Managed.
Changing the image registry's management state
To start the image registry, you must change the Image Registry Operator configuration's managementState from Removed to Managed.

Change managementState Image Registry Operator configuration from Removed to Managed. For example:
Image registry storage configuration
The Image Registry Operator is not initially available for platforms that do not provide default storage. After installation, you must configure your registry to use storage so that the Registry Operator is made available.

Instructions are shown for configuring a persistent volume, which is required for production clusters. Where applicable, instructions are shown for configuring an empty directory as the storage location, which is available for only non-production clusters.

Additional instructions are provided for allowing the image registry to use block storage types by using the Recreate rollout strategy during upgrades.

Configuring registry storage for VMware vSphere
As a cluster administrator, following installation you must configure your registry to use storage.

Cluster administrator permissions.

A cluster on VMware vSphere.

Persistent storage provisioned for your cluster, such as Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.

Must have "100Gi" capacity.


Testing shows issues with using the NFS server on RHEL as storage backend for core services. This includes the OpenShift Container Registry and Quay, Prometheus for monitoring storage, and Elasticsearch for logging storage. Therefore, using RHEL NFS to back PVs used by core services is not recommended.

Other NFS implementations on the marketplace might not have these issues. Contact the individual NFS implementation vendor for more information on any testing that was possibly completed against these "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" core components.
To configure your registry to use storage, change the spec.storage.pvc in the configs.imageregistry/cluster resource.

Verify that you do not have a registry pod:

Check the registry configuration:

Check the clusteroperator status:
Configuring storage for the image registry in non-production clusters
You must configure storage for the Image Registry Operator. For non-production clusters, you can set the image registry to an empty directory. If you do so, all images are lost if you restart the registry.

To set the image registry storage to an empty directory:
Configuring block registry storage for VMware vSphere
To allow the image registry to use block storage types such as vSphere Virtual Machine Disk (VMDK) during upgrades as a cluster administrator, you can use the Recreate rollout strategy.

Block storage volumes are supported but not recommended for use with image registry on production clusters. An installation where the registry is configured on block storage is not highly available because the registry cannot have more than one replica.
Enter the following command to set the image registry storage as a block storage type, patch the registry so that it uses the Recreate rollout strategy, and runs with only 1 replica:

Provision the PV for the block storage device, and create a PVC for that volume. The requested block volume uses the ReadWriteOnce (RWO) access mode.

Enter the following command to edit the registry configuration so that it references the correct PVC:


For instructions about configuring registry storage so that it references the correct PVC, see Configuring the registry for vSphere.
Configuring the Image Registry Operator to use Ceph RGW storage with Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation
Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation integrates multiple storage types that you can use with the OpenShift image registry:

Ceph, a shared and distributed file system and on-premises object storage

NooBaa, providing a Multicloud Object Gateway


This document outlines the procedure to configure the image registry to use Ceph RGW storage.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You installed the oc CLI.

You installed the OpenShift Data Foundation Operator to provide object storage and Ceph RGW object storage.


Create the object bucket claim using the ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rgw storage class. For example:

Get the bucket name by entering the following command:

Get the AWS credentials by entering the following commands:

Create the secret image-registry-private-configuration-user with the AWS credentials for the new bucket under openshift-image-registry project by entering the following command:

Get the buckethost value by entering the following command:

Create a config map that uses an ingress certificate by entering the following commands:

Configure the image registry to use the Ceph RGW object storage by entering the following command:
Configuring the Image Registry Operator to use Noobaa storage with Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation
Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation integrates multiple storage types that you can use with the OpenShift image registry:

Ceph, a shared and distributed file system and on-premises object storage

NooBaa, providing a Multicloud Object Gateway


This document outlines the procedure to configure the image registry to use Noobaa storage.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You installed the oc CLI.

You installed the OpenShift Data Foundation Operator to provide object storage and Noobaa object storage.


Create the object bucket claim using the openshift-storage.noobaa.io storage class. For example:

Get the bucket name by entering the following command:

Get the AWS credentials by entering the following commands:

Create the secret image-registry-private-configuration-user with the AWS credentials for the new bucket under openshift-image-registry project by entering the following command:

Get the route host by entering the following command:

Create a config map that uses an ingress certificate by entering the following commands:

Configure the image registry to use the Nooba object storage by entering the following command:
Configuring the Image Registry Operator to use CephFS storage with Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation
Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation integrates multiple storage types that you can use with the OpenShift image registry:

Ceph, a shared and distributed file system and on-premises object storage

NooBaa, providing a Multicloud Object Gateway


This document outlines the procedure to configure the image registry to use CephFS storage.

CephFS uses persistent volume claim (PVC) storage. It is not recommended to use PVCs for image registry storage if there are other options are available, such as Ceph RGW or Noobaa.
You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You installed the oc CLI.

You installed the OpenShift Data Foundation Operator to provide object storage and CephFS file storage.


Create a PVC to use the cephfs storage class. For example:

Configure the image registry to use the CephFS file system storage by entering the following command:
Additional resources
Recommended configurable storage technology

Configuring Image Registry to use OpenShift Data Foundation