Configuring the registry for AWS user-provisioned infrastructure

Configuring a secret for the Image Registry Operator
In addition to the configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io and ConfigMap resources, configuration is provided to the Operator by a separate secret resource located within the openshift-image-registry namespace.

The image-registry-private-configuration-user secret provides credentials needed for storage access and management. It overrides the default credentials used by the Operator, if default credentials were found.

For S3 on AWS storage, the secret is expected to contain two keys:

REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_ACCESSKEY

REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_SECRETKEY


Create an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" secret that contains the required keys.
Configuring registry storage for AWS with user-provisioned infrastructure
During installation, your cloud credentials are sufficient to create an Amazon S3 bucket and the Registry Operator will automatically configure storage.

If the Registry Operator cannot create an S3 bucket and automatically configure storage, you can create an S3 bucket and configure storage with the following procedure.

You have a cluster on AWS with user-provisioned infrastructure.

For Amazon S3 storage, the secret is expected to contain two keys:


Use the following procedure if the Registry Operator cannot create an S3 bucket and automatically configure storage.

Set up a Bucket Lifecycle Policy
to abort incomplete multipart uploads that are one day old.

Fill in the storage configuration in
configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/cluster:


To secure your registry images in AWS, block public access to the S3 bucket.
Image Registry Operator configuration parameters for AWS S3
The following configuration parameters are available for AWS S3 registry storage.

The image registry spec.storage.s3 configuration parameter holds the information to configure the registry to use the AWS S3 service for back-end storage. See the S3 storage driver documentation for more information.


When the value of the regionEndpoint parameter is configured to a URL of a Rados Gateway, an explicit port must not be specified. For example:

regionEndpoint: http://rook-ceph-rgw-ocs-storagecluster-cephobjectstore.openshift-storage.svc.cluster.local