Configuring the Linux cgroup version on your nodes

As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform uses Linux control group version 2 (cgroup v2) in your cluster. If you are using cgroup v1 on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.13 or earlier, migrating to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14 or later will not automatically update your cgroup configuration to version 2. A fresh installation of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14 or later will use cgroup v2 by default. However, you can enable Linux control group version 1 (cgroup v1) upon installation.

cgroup v1 is a deprecated feature. Deprecated functionality is still included in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and continues to be supported; however, it will be removed in a future release of this product and is not recommended for new deployments.

For the most recent list of major functionality that has been deprecated or removed within Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, refer to the Deprecated and removed features section of the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release notes.
cgroup v2 is the current version of the Linux cgroup API. cgroup v2 offers several improvements over cgroup v1, including a unified hierarchy, safer sub-tree delegation, new features such as Pressure Stall Information, and enhanced resource management and isolation. However, cgroup v2 has different CPU, memory, and I/O management characteristics than cgroup v1. Therefore, some workloads might experience slight differences in memory or CPU usage on clusters that run cgroup v2.

You can change between cgroup v1 and cgroup v2, as needed. Enabling cgroup v1 in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform disables all cgroup v2 controllers and hierarchies in your cluster.

If you run third-party monitoring and security agents that depend on the cgroup file system, update the agents to a version that supports cgroup v2.

If you have configured cgroup v2 and run cAdvisor as a stand-alone daemon set for monitoring pods and containers, update cAdvisor to v0.43.0 or later.

If you deploy Java applications, use versions that fully support cgroup v2, such as the following packages:
Configuring Linux cgroup
You can enable Linux control group version 1 (cgroup v1) or Linux control group version 2 (cgroup v2)  by editing the node.config object. The default is cgroup v2.

cgroup v1 is a deprecated feature. Deprecated functionality is still included in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and continues to be supported; however, it will be removed in a future release of this product and is not recommended for new deployments.

For the most recent list of major functionality that has been deprecated or removed within Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, refer to the Deprecated and removed features section of the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release notes.
Currently, disabling CPU load balancing is not supported by cgroup v2. As a result, you might not get the desired behavior from performance profiles if you have cgroup v2 enabled. Enabling cgroup v2 is not recommended if you are using performance profiles.
You have a running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster that uses version 4.12 or later.

You are logged in to the cluster as a user with administrative privileges.


Enable cgroup v1 on nodes:


Check the machine configs to see that the new machine configs were added:

Check that the new kernelArguments were added to the new machine configs:

Check the nodes to see that scheduling on the nodes is disabled. This indicates that the change is being applied:

After a node returns to the Ready state, start a debug session for that node:

Set /host as the root directory within the debug shell:

Check that the sys/fs/cgroup/cgroup2fs or sys/fs/cgroup/tmpfs file is present on your nodes:


OpenShift Container Platform installation overview