Creating virtual machines from templates

You can create virtual machines (VMs) from Red Hat templates by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.
About VM templates

Boot sources
You can expedite VM creation by using templates that have an available boot source. Templates with a boot source are labeled Available boot source if they do not have a custom label.
Customization
You can customize the disk source and VM parameters before you start the VM:


If you copy a VM template with all its labels and annotations, your version of the template is marked as deprecated when a new version of the Scheduling, Scale, and Performance (SSP) Operator is deployed. You can remove this designation. See Customizing a VM template by using the web console.

Single-node OpenShift
Due to differences in storage behavior, some templates are incompatible with single-node OpenShift. To ensure compatibility, do not set the evictionStrategy field for templates or VMs that use data volumes or storage profiles.
Creating a VM from a template
You can create a virtual machine (VM) from a template with an available boot source by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

Optional: You can customize template or VM parameters, such as data sources, cloud-init, or SSH keys, before you start the VM.

Navigate to Virtualization -> Catalog in the web console.

Click Boot source available to filter templates with boot sources.

Click a template tile to view its details.

Click Quick create VirtualMachine to create a VM from the template.


Storage volume types

Storage fields


The following advanced storage settings are optional and available for Blank, Import via URL, and Clone existing PVC disks.

If you do not specify these parameters, the system uses the default storage profile values.
Customizing a VM template by using the web console
You can customize an existing virtual machine (VM) template by modifying the VM or template parameters, such as data sources, cloud-init, or SSH keys, before you start the VM. If you customize a template by copying it and including all of its labels and annotations, the customized template is marked as deprecated when a new version of the Scheduling, Scale, and Performance (SSP) Operator is deployed.

You can remove the deprecated designation from the customized template.

Navigate to Virtualization -> Templates in the web console.

From the list of VM templates, click the template marked as deprecated.

Click Edit next to the pencil icon beside Labels.

Remove the following two labels:

Click Save.

Click the pencil icon beside the number of existing Annotations.

Remove the following annotation:

Click Save.