Deploy your plugin on a cluster

You can deploy the plugin to a "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.
Build an image with Docker
To deploy your plugin on a cluster, you need to build an image and push it to an image registry.

Build the image with the following command:

Optional: If you want to test your image, run the following command:

Push the image by running the following command:
Deploy your plugin on a cluster
After pushing an image with your changes to a registry, you can deploy the plugin to a cluster.

To deploy your plugin to a cluster, install a Helm chart with the name of the plugin as the Helm release name into a new namespace or an existing namespace as specified by the -n command-line option. Provide the location of the image within the plugin.image parameter by using the following command:

Optional: You can specify any additional parameters by using the set of supported parameters in the charts/openshift-console-plugin/values.yaml file.


View the list of enabled plugins by navigating from Administration -> Cluster Settings -> Configuration -> Console operator.openshift.io -> Console plugins or by visiting the Overview page.


It can take a few minutes for the new plugin configuration to appear. If you do not see your plugin, you might need to refresh your browser if the plugin was recently enabled. If you receive any errors at runtime, check the JS console in browser developer tools to look for any errors in your plugin code.
Disabling your plugin in the browser
Console users can use the disable-plugins query parameter to disable specific or all dynamic plugins that would normally get loaded at run-time.

To disable a specific plugin(s), remove the plugin you want to disable from the comma-separated list of plugin names.

To disable all plugins, leave an empty string in the disable-plugins query parameter.


Cluster administrators can disable plugins in the Cluster Settings page of the web console
Additional resources
Understanding Helm