Creating a compute machine set on GCP

You can create a different compute machine set to serve a specific purpose in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). For example, you might create infrastructure machine sets and related machines so that you can move supporting workloads to the new machines.

You can use the advanced machine management and scaling capabilities only in clusters where the Machine API is operational. Clusters with user-provisioned infrastructure require additional validation and configuration to use the Machine API.

Clusters with the infrastructure platform type none cannot use the Machine API. This limitation applies even if the compute machines that are attached to the cluster are installed on a platform that supports the feature. This parameter cannot be changed after installation.

To view the platform type for your cluster, run the following command:

$ oc get infrastructure cluster -o jsonpath='{.status.platform}'
Sample YAML for a compute machine set custom resource on GCP
This sample YAML defines a compute machine set that runs in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and creates nodes that are labeled with node-role.kubernetes.io/<role>: "", where <role> is the node label to add.


In the following example, you can obtain some of the values for your cluster by using the OpenShift CLI.


Infrastructure ID
The <infrastructure_id> string is the infrastructure ID that is based on the cluster ID that you set when you provisioned the cluster. If you have the OpenShift CLI installed, you can obtain the infrastructure ID by running the following command:
Image path
The <path_to_image> string is the path to the image that was used to create the disk. If you have the OpenShift CLI installed, you can obtain the path to the image by running the following command:


apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata:
  labels:
    machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> 1
  name: <infrastructure_id>-w-a
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id>
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-w-a
  template:
    metadata:
      creationTimestamp: null
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <role> 2
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-w-a
    spec:
      metadata:
        labels:
          node-role.kubernetes.io/<role>: ""
      providerSpec:
        value:
          apiVersion: gcpprovider.openshift.io/v1beta1
          canIPForward: false
          credentialsSecret:
            name: gcp-cloud-credentials
          deletionProtection: false
          disks:
          - autoDelete: true
            boot: true
            image: <path_to_image> 3
            labels: null
            sizeGb: 128
            type: pd-ssd
          gcpMetadata: 4
          - key: <custom_metadata_key>
            value: <custom_metadata_value>
          kind: GCPMachineProviderSpec
          machineType: n1-standard-4
          metadata:
            creationTimestamp: null
          networkInterfaces:
          - network: <infrastructure_id>-network
            subnetwork: <infrastructure_id>-worker-subnet
          projectID: <project_name> 5
          region: us-central1
          serviceAccounts:
          - email: <infrastructure_id>-w@<project_name>.iam.gserviceaccount.com
            scopes:
            - https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform
          tags:
            - <infrastructure_id>-worker
          userDataSecret:
            name: worker-user-data
          zone: us-central1-a
For <infrastructure_id>, specify the infrastructure ID that is based on the cluster ID that you set when you provisioned the cluster.

For <node>, specify the node label to add.

Specify the path to the image that is used in current compute machine sets.

Optional: Specify custom metadata in the form of a key:value pair. For example use cases, see the GCP documentation for setting custom metadata.

For <project_name>, specify the name of the GCP project that you use for your cluster.
Creating a compute machine set
In addition to the compute machine sets created by the installation program, you can create your own to dynamically manage the machine compute resources for specific workloads of your choice.

Deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Log in to oc as a user with cluster-admin permission.


Create a new YAML file that contains the compute machine set custom resource (CR) sample and is named <file_name>.yaml.

Optional: If you are not sure which value to set for a specific field, you can check an existing compute machine set from your cluster.

Create a MachineSet CR by running the following command:


View the list of compute machine sets by running the following command:
Configuring persistent disk types by using machine sets
You can configure the type of persistent disk that a machine set deploys machines on by editing the machine set YAML file.

For more information about persistent disk types, compatibility, regional availability, and limitations, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about persistent disks.

In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following line under the providerSpec field:


Using the Google Cloud console, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the Type field matches the configured disk type.
Configuring Confidential VM by using machine sets
By editing the machine set YAML file, you can configure the Confidential VM options that a machine set uses for machines that it deploys.

For more information about Confidential VM features, functions, and compatibility, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about Confidential VM.

Confidential VMs are currently not supported on 64-bit ARM architectures.
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} does not support some Confidential Compute features, such as Confidential VMs with AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP).
In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following section under the providerSpec field:


On the Google Cloud console, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the Confidential VM options match the values that you configured.
Machine sets that deploy machines as preemptible VM instances
You can save on costs by creating a compute machine set running on GCP that deploys machines as non-guaranteed preemptible VM instances. Preemptible VM instances utilize excess Compute Engine capacity and are less expensive than normal instances. You can use preemptible VM instances for workloads that can tolerate interruptions, such as batch or stateless, horizontally scalable workloads.

GCP Compute Engine can terminate a preemptible VM instance at any time. Compute Engine sends a preemption notice to the user indicating that an interruption will occur in 30 seconds. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" begins to remove the workloads from the affected instances when Compute Engine issues the preemption notice. An ACPI G3 Mechanical Off signal is sent to the operating system after 30 seconds if the instance is not stopped. The preemptible VM instance is then transitioned to a TERMINATED state by Compute Engine.

Interruptions can occur when using preemptible VM instances for the following reasons:

There is a system or maintenance event

The supply of preemptible VM instances decreases

The instance reaches the end of the allotted 24-hour period for preemptible VM instances


When GCP terminates an instance, a termination handler running on the preemptible VM instance node deletes the machine resource. To satisfy the compute machine set replicas quantity, the compute machine set creates a machine that requests a preemptible VM instance.

Creating preemptible VM instances by using compute machine sets
You can launch a preemptible VM instance on GCP by adding preemptible to your compute machine set YAML file.

Add the following line under the providerSpec field:
Configuring Shielded VM options by using machine sets
By editing the machine set YAML file, you can configure the Shielded VM options that a machine set uses for machines that it deploys.

For more information about Shielded VM features and functionality, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about Shielded VM.

In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following section under the providerSpec field:


Using the Google Cloud console, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the Shielded VM options match the values that you configured.


What is Shielded VM?
Enabling customer-managed encryption keys for a machine set
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Compute Engine allows users to supply an encryption key to encrypt data on disks at rest. The key is used to encrypt the data encryption key, not to encrypt the customer's data. By default, Compute Engine encrypts this data by using Compute Engine keys.

You can enable encryption with a customer-managed key in clusters that use the Machine API. You must first create a KMS key and assign the correct permissions to a service account. The KMS key name, key ring name, and location are required to allow a service account to use your key.

If you do not want to use a dedicated service account for the KMS encryption, the Compute Engine default service account is used instead. You must grant the default service account permission to access the keys if you do not use a dedicated service account. The Compute Engine default service account name follows the service-<project_number>@compute-system.iam.gserviceaccount.com pattern.
To allow a specific service account to use your KMS key and to grant the service account the correct IAM role, run the following command with your KMS key name, key ring name, and location:

Configure the encryption key under the providerSpec field in your machine set YAML file. For example:
Enabling GPU support for a compute machine set
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Compute Engine enables users to add GPUs to VM instances. Workloads that benefit from access to GPU resources can perform better on compute machines with this feature enabled. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on GCP supports NVIDIA GPU models in the A2 and N1 machine series.


For more information about machine types, including specifications, compatibility, regional availability, and limitations, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about N1 machine series, A2 machine series, and GPU regions and zones availability.
You can define which supported GPU to use for an instance by using the Machine API.

You can configure machines in the N1 machine series to deploy with one of the supported GPU types. Machines in the A2 machine series come with associated GPUs, and cannot use guest accelerators.

GPUs for graphics workloads are not supported.
In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing compute machine set or create a new one.

Specify a GPU configuration under the providerSpec field in your compute machine set YAML file. See the following examples of valid configurations:
Adding a GPU node to an existing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster
You can copy and modify a default compute machine set configuration to create a GPU-enabled machine set and machines for the GCP cloud provider.

The following table lists the validated instance types:


Make a copy of an existing MachineSet.

In the new copy, change the machine set name in metadata.name and in both instances of machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset.

Change the instance type to add the following two lines to the newly copied MachineSet:

View the existing nodes, machines, and machine sets by running the following command. Note that each node is an instance of a machine definition with a specific GCP region and "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" role.

View the machines and machine sets that exist in the openshift-machine-api namespace by running the following command. Each compute machine set is associated with a different availability zone within the GCP region. The installer automatically load balances compute machines across availability zones.

View the machines that exist in the openshift-machine-api namespace by running the following command. You can only configure one compute machine per set, although you can scale a compute machine set to add a node in a particular region and zone.

Make a copy of one of the existing compute MachineSet definitions and output the result to a JSON file by running the following command. This will be the basis for the GPU-enabled compute machine set definition.

Edit the JSON file to make the following changes to the new MachineSet definition:

Update the following fields in ocp_{product-version}_machineset-a2-highgpu-1g.json:

To verify your changes, perform a diff of the original compute definition and the new GPU-enabled node definition by running the following command:

Create the GPU-enabled compute machine set from the definition file by running the following command:


View the machine set you created by running the following command:

View the Machine object that the machine set created by running the following command:


Note that there is no need to specify a namespace for the node. The node definition is cluster scoped.
Deploying the Node Feature Discovery Operator
After the GPU-enabled node is created, you need to discover the GPU-enabled node so it can be scheduled. To do this, install the Node Feature Discovery (NFD) Operator. The NFD Operator identifies hardware device features in nodes. It solves the general problem of identifying and cataloging hardware resources in the infrastructure nodes so they can be made available to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

Install the Node Feature Discovery Operator from OperatorHub in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" console.

After installing the NFD Operator into OperatorHub, select Node Feature Discovery from the installed Operators list and select Create instance. This installs the nfd-master and nfd-worker pods, one nfd-worker pod for each compute node, in the openshift-nfd namespace.

Verify that the Operator is installed and running by running the following command:

Browse to the installed Oerator in the console and select Create Node Feature Discovery.

Select Create to build a NFD custom resource. This creates NFD pods in the openshift-nfd namespace that poll the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes for hardware resources and catalogue them.


After a successful build, verify that a NFD pod is running on each nodes by running the following command:

View the NVIDIA GPU discovered by the NFD Operator by running the following command: