Adding RHEL compute machines to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, you can add Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines to a user-provisioned infrastructure cluster or an installation-provisioned infrastructure cluster on the x86_64 architecture. You can use RHEL as the operating system only on compute machines.
About adding RHEL compute nodes to a cluster
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, you have the option of using Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) machines as compute machines in your cluster if you use a user-provisioned or installer-provisioned infrastructure installation on the x86_64 architecture. You must use Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines for the control plane machines in your cluster.

If you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you are responsible for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance. You must perform system updates, apply patches, and complete all other required tasks.

For installer-provisioned infrastructure clusters, you must manually add RHEL compute machines because automatic scaling in installer-provisioned infrastructure clusters adds Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines by default.

Because removing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform from a machine in the cluster requires destroying the operating system, you must use dedicated hardware for any RHEL machines that you add to the cluster.

Swap memory is disabled on all RHEL machines that you add to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. You cannot enable swap memory on these machines.
You must add any RHEL compute machines to the cluster after you initialize the control plane.
System requirements for RHEL compute nodes
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machine hosts in your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform environment must meet the following minimum hardware specifications and system-level requirements:

You must have an active Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscription on your Red Hat account. If you do not, contact your sales representative for more information.

Production environments must provide compute machines to support your expected workloads. As a cluster administrator, you must calculate the expected workload and add about 10% for overhead. For production environments, allocate enough resources so that a node host failure does not affect your maximum capacity.

Each system must meet the following hardware requirements:

Each system must meet any additional requirements for your system provider. For example, if you installed your cluster on VMware vSphere, your disks must be configured according to its storage guidelines and the disk.enableUUID=true attribute must be set.

Each system must be able to access the cluster's API endpoints by using DNS-resolvable hostnames. Any network security access control that is in place must allow system access to the cluster's API service endpoints.


Deleting nodes


Certificate signing requests management
Because your cluster has limited access to automatic machine management when you use infrastructure that you provision, you must provide a mechanism for approving cluster certificate signing requests (CSRs) after installation. The kube-controller-manager only approves the kubelet client CSRs. The machine-approver cannot guarantee the validity of a serving certificate that is requested by using kubelet credentials because it cannot confirm that the correct machine issued the request. You must determine and implement a method of verifying the validity of the kubelet serving certificate requests and approving them.
Preparing an image for your cloud
Amazon Machine Images (AMI) are required because various image formats cannot be used directly by AWS. You may use the AMIs that Red Hat has provided, or you can manually import your own images. The AMI must exist before the EC2 instance can be provisioned. You will need a valid AMI ID so that the correct RHEL version needed for the compute machines is selected.

Listing latest available RHEL images on AWS
AMI IDs correspond to native boot images for AWS. Because an AMI must exist before the EC2 instance is provisioned, you will need to know the AMI ID before configuration. The AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) is used to list the available Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) image IDs.

You have installed the AWS CLI.


Use this command to list RHEL 8.4 Amazon Machine Images (AMI):


When creating a RHEL compute machine for AWS, ensure that the AMI is RHEL 8.4 or 8.5.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                              DescribeImages                                              |
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|  2021-03-18T14:23:11.000Z |  RHEL-8.4.0_HVM_BETA-20210309-x86_64-1-Hourly2-GP2  |  ami-07eeb4db5f7e5a8fb |
|  2021-03-18T14:38:28.000Z |  RHEL-8.4.0_HVM_BETA-20210309-arm64-1-Hourly2-GP2   |  ami-069d22ec49577d4bf |
|  2021-05-18T19:06:34.000Z |  RHEL-8.4.0_HVM-20210504-arm64-2-Hourly2-GP2        |  ami-01fc429821bf1f4b4 |
|  2021-05-18T20:09:47.000Z |  RHEL-8.4.0_HVM-20210504-x86_64-2-Hourly2-GP2       |  ami-0b0af3577fe5e3532 |
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
You may also manually import RHEL images to AWS.
Preparing the machine to run the playbook
Before you can add compute machines that use Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) as the operating system to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15 cluster, you must prepare a RHEL 8 machine to run an Ansible playbook that adds the new node to the cluster. This machine is not part of the cluster but must be able to access it.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc) on the machine that you run the playbook on.

Log in as a user with cluster-admin permission.


Ensure that the kubeconfig file for the cluster and the installation program that you used to install the cluster are on the RHEL 8 machine. One way to accomplish this is to use the same machine that you used to install the cluster.

Configure the machine to access all of the RHEL hosts that you plan to use as compute machines. You can use any method that your company allows, including a bastion with an SSH proxy or a VPN.

Configure a user on the machine that you run the playbook on that has SSH access to all of the RHEL hosts.

If you have not already done so, register the machine with RHSM and attach a pool with an OpenShift subscription to it:

Enable the repositories required by Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15:

Install the required packages, including openshift-ansible:
Preparing a RHEL compute node
Before you add a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) machine to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster, you must register each host with Red Hat Subscription Manager (RHSM), attach an active Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscription, and enable the required repositories.

On each host, register with RHSM:

Pull the latest subscription data from RHSM:

List the available subscriptions:

In the output for the previous command, find the pool ID for an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscription and attach it:

Disable all yum repositories:

Enable only the repositories required by Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15:

Stop and disable firewalld on the host:
Attaching the role permissions to RHEL instance in AWS
Using the Amazon IAM console in your browser, you may select the needed roles and assign them to a worker node.

From the AWS IAM console, create your desired IAM role.

Attach the IAM role to the desired worker node.


See Required AWS permissions for IAM roles.
Tagging a RHEL worker node as owned or shared
A cluster uses the value of the kubernetes.io/cluster/<clusterid>,Value=(owned|shared) tag to determine the lifetime of the resources related to the AWS cluster.

The owned tag value should be added if the resource should be destroyed as part of destroying the cluster.

The shared tag value should be added if the resource continues to exist after the cluster has been destroyed. This tagging denotes that the cluster uses this resource, but there is a separate owner for the resource.


With RHEL compute machines, the RHEL worker instance must be tagged with kubernetes.io/cluster/<clusterid>=owned or kubernetes.io/cluster/<cluster-id>=shared.


Do not tag all existing security groups with the kubernetes.io/cluster/<name>,Value=<clusterid> tag, or the Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) will not be able to create a load balancer.
Adding a RHEL compute machine to your cluster
You can add compute machines that use Red Hat Enterprise Linux as the operating system to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15 cluster.

You installed the required packages and performed the necessary configuration on the machine that you run the playbook on.

You prepared the RHEL hosts for installation.


Perform the following steps on the machine that you prepared to run the playbook:

Create an Ansible inventory file that is named /<path>/inventory/hosts that defines your compute machine hosts and required variables:

Navigate to the Ansible playbook directory:

Run the playbook:
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.
Required parameters for the Ansible hosts file
You must define the following parameters in the Ansible hosts file before you add Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines to your cluster.


Optional: Removing RHCOS compute machines from a cluster
After you add the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines to your cluster, you can optionally remove the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines to free up resources.

You have added RHEL compute machines to your cluster.


View the list of machines and record the node names of the RHCOS compute machines:

For each RHCOS compute machine, delete the node:

Review the list of compute machines to ensure that only the RHEL nodes remain:

Remove the RHCOS machines from the load balancer for your cluster's compute machines. You can delete the virtual machines or reimage the physical hardware for the RHCOS compute machines.