Manually scaling a compute machine set

You can add or remove an instance of a machine in a compute machine set.

If you need to modify aspects of a compute machine set outside of scaling, see Modifying a compute machine set.
Prerequisites
If you enabled the cluster-wide proxy and scale up compute machines not included in networking.machineNetwork[].cidr from the installation configuration, you must add the compute machines to the Proxy object's noProxy field to prevent connection issues.


You can use the advanced machine management and scaling capabilities only in clusters where the Machine API is operational. Clusters with user-provisioned infrastructure require additional validation and configuration to use the Machine API.

Clusters with the infrastructure platform type none cannot use the Machine API. This limitation applies even if the compute machines that are attached to the cluster are installed on a platform that supports the feature. This parameter cannot be changed after installation.

To view the platform type for your cluster, run the following command:

$ oc get infrastructure cluster -o jsonpath='{.status.platform}'
Scaling a compute machine set manually
To add or remove an instance of a machine in a compute machine set, you can manually scale the compute machine set.

This guidance is relevant to fully automated, installer-provisioned infrastructure installations. Customized, user-provisioned infrastructure installations do not have compute machine sets.

Install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster and the oc command line.

Log in to  oc as a user with cluster-admin permission.


View the compute machine sets that are in the cluster by running the following command:

View the compute machines that are in the cluster by running the following command:

Set the annotation on the compute machine that you want to delete by running the following command:

Scale the compute machine set by running one of the following commands:


Verify the deletion of the intended machine by running the following command:
The compute machine set deletion policy
Random, Newest, and Oldest are the three supported deletion options. The default is Random, meaning that random machines are chosen and deleted when scaling compute machine sets down. The deletion policy can be set according to the use case by modifying the particular compute machine set:

spec:
  deletePolicy: <delete_policy>
  replicas: <desired_replica_count>
Specific machines can also be prioritized for deletion by adding the annotation machine.openshift.io/delete-machine=true to the machine of interest, regardless of the deletion policy.

By default, the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" router pods are deployed on workers. Because the router is required to access some cluster resources, including the web console, do not scale the worker compute machine set to 0 unless you first relocate the router pods.
Custom compute machine sets can be used for use cases requiring that services run on specific nodes and that those services are ignored by the controller when the worker compute machine sets are scaling down. This prevents service disruption.
Additional resources
Lifecycle hooks for the machine deletion phase