Modifying a compute machine set

You can modify a compute machine set, such as adding labels, changing the instance type, or changing block storage.

If you need to scale a compute machine set without making other changes, see Manually scaling a compute machine set.
Modifying a compute machine set by using the CLI
When you modify a compute machine set, your changes only apply to compute machines that are created after you save the updated MachineSet custom resource (CR). The changes do not affect existing machines. You can replace the existing machines with new ones that reflect the updated configuration by scaling the compute machine set.

If you need to scale a compute machine set without making other changes, you do not need to delete the machines.

By default, the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" router pods are deployed on compute machines. Because the router is required to access some cluster resources, including the web console, do not scale the compute machine set to 0 unless you first relocate the router pods.
The output examples in this procedure use the values for an AWS cluster.

Your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster uses the Machine API.

You are logged in to the cluster as an administrator by using the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Edit the compute machine set by running the following command:

Note the value of the spec.replicas field, because you need it when scaling the machine set to apply the changes.

Update the compute machine set CR with the configuration options that you want and save your changes.

List the machines that are managed by the updated compute machine set by running the following command:

For each machine that is managed by the updated compute machine set, set the delete annotation by running the following command:

To create replacement machines with the new configuration, scale the compute machine set to twice the number of replicas by running the following command:

List the machines that are managed by the updated compute machine set by running the following command:

To remove the machines that were created with the old configuration, scale the compute machine set to the original number of replicas by running the following command:


To verify that a machine created by the updated machine set has the correct configuration, examine the relevant fields in the CR for one of the new machines by running the following command:

To verify that the compute machines without the updated configuration are deleted, list the machines that are managed by the updated compute machine set by running the following command:


Lifecycle hooks for the machine deletion phase

Scaling a compute machine set manually

Controlling pod placement using the scheduler