Configuring an htpasswd identity provider

Configure the htpasswd identity provider to allow users to log in to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" with credentials from an htpasswd file.

To define an htpasswd identity provider, perform the following tasks:

Create an htpasswd file to store the user and password information.

Create
a secret to represent the htpasswd file.

Define an htpasswd identity provider resource that references the secret.

Apply the resource to
the default OAuth configuration to add the identity provider.
About htpasswd authentication
Using htpasswd authentication in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" allows you to identify users based on an htpasswd file. An htpasswd file is a flat file that contains the user name and hashed password for each user. You can use the htpasswd utility to create this file.
Creating the htpasswd file
See one of the following sections for instructions about how to create the htpasswd file:

Creating an htpasswd file using Linux

Creating an htpasswd file using Windows


Creating an htpasswd file using Linux
To use the htpasswd identity provider, you must generate a flat file that contains the user names and passwords for your cluster by using htpasswd.

Have access to the htpasswd utility. On Red Hat Enterprise Linux
this is available by installing the httpd-tools package.


Create or update your flat file with a user name and hashed password:

Continue to add or update credentials to the file:
Creating an htpasswd file using Windows
To use the htpasswd identity provider, you must generate a flat file that contains the user names and passwords for your cluster by using htpasswd.

Have access to htpasswd.exe. This file is included in the \bin
directory of many Apache httpd distributions.


Create or update your flat file with a user name and hashed password:

Continue to add or update credentials to the file:
Creating the htpasswd secret
To use the htpasswd identity provider, you must define a secret that contains the htpasswd user file.

Create an htpasswd file.


Create a Secret object that contains the htpasswd users file:
Sample htpasswd CR
The following custom resource (CR) shows the parameters and acceptable values for an htpasswd identity provider.

apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: OAuth
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  identityProviders:
  - name: my_htpasswd_provider 1
    mappingMethod: claim 2
    type: HTPasswd
    htpasswd:
      fileData:
        name: htpass-secret 3
This provider name is prefixed to provider user names to form an identity
name.

Controls how mappings are established between this provider's identities and User objects.

An existing secret containing a file generated using
htpasswd.


See Identity provider parameters for information on parameters, such as mappingMethod, that are common to all identity providers.
Adding an identity provider to your cluster
After you install your cluster, add an identity provider to it so your users can authenticate.

Create an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

Create the custom resource (CR) for your identity providers.

You must be logged in as an administrator.


Apply the defined CR:

Log in to the cluster as a user from your identity provider, entering the
password when prompted.

Confirm that the user logged in successfully, and display the user name.
Updating users for an htpasswd identity provider
You can add or remove users from an existing htpasswd identity provider.

You have created a Secret object that contains the htpasswd user file. This procedure assumes that it is named htpass-secret.

You have configured an htpasswd identity provider. This procedure assumes that it is named my_htpasswd_provider.

You have access to the htpasswd utility. On Red Hat Enterprise Linux this is available by installing the httpd-tools package.

You have cluster administrator privileges.


Retrieve the htpasswd file from the htpass-secret Secret object and save the file to your file system:

Add or remove users from the users.htpasswd file.

Replace the htpass-secret Secret object with the updated users in the users.htpasswd file:

If you removed one or more users, you must additionally remove existing resources for each user.
Configuring identity providers using the web console
Configure your identity provider (IDP) through the web console instead of the CLI.

You must be logged in to the web console as a cluster administrator.


Navigate to Administration -> Cluster Settings.

Under the Configuration tab, click OAuth.

Under the Identity Providers section, select your identity provider from the
Add drop-down menu.


You can specify multiple IDPs through the web console without overwriting existing IDPs.