Converting a connected cluster to a disconnected cluster

There might be some scenarios where you need to convert your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster from a connected cluster to a disconnected cluster.

A disconnected cluster, also known as a restricted cluster, does not have an active connection to the internet. As such, you must mirror the contents of your registries and installation media. You can create this mirror registry on a host that can access both the internet and your closed network, or copy images to a device that you can move across network boundaries.

This topic describes the general process for converting an existing, connected cluster into a disconnected cluster.
About the mirror registry
You can mirror the images that are required for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and subsequent product updates to a container mirror registry such as Red Hat Quay, JFrog Artifactory, Sonatype Nexus Repository, or Harbor. If you do not have access to a large-scale container registry, you can use the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, a small-scale container registry included with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscriptions.

You can use any container registry that supports Docker v2-2, such as Red Hat Quay, the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, Artifactory, Sonatype Nexus Repository, or Harbor. Regardless of your chosen registry, the procedure to mirror content from Red Hat hosted sites on the internet to an isolated image registry is the same. After you mirror the content, you configure each cluster to retrieve this content from your mirror registry.

The OpenShift image registry cannot be used as the target registry because it does not support pushing without a tag, which is required during the mirroring process.
If choosing a container registry that is not the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, it must be reachable by every machine in the clusters that you provision. If the registry is unreachable, installation, updating, or normal operations such as workload relocation might fail. For that reason, you must run mirror registries in a highly available way, and the mirror registries must at least match the production availability of your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters.

When you populate your mirror registry with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform images, you can follow two scenarios. If you have a host that can access both the internet and your mirror registry, but not your cluster nodes, you can directly mirror the content from that machine. This process is referred to as connected mirroring. If you have no such host, you must mirror the images to a file system and then bring that host or removable media into your restricted environment. This process is referred to as disconnected mirroring.

For mirrored registries, to view the source of pulled images, you must review the Trying to access log entry in the CRI-O logs. Other methods to view the image pull source, such as using the crictl images command on a node, show the non-mirrored image name, even though the image is pulled from the mirrored location.

Red Hat does not test third party registries with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
Prerequisites
The oc client is installed.

A running cluster.

An installed mirror registry, which is a container image registry that supports Docker v2-2 in the location that will host the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster, such as one of the following registries:

The mirror repository must be configured to share images. For example, a Red Hat Quay repository requires Organizations in order to share images.

Access to the internet to obtain the necessary container images.
Preparing the cluster for mirroring
Before disconnecting your cluster, you must mirror, or copy, the images to a mirror registry that is reachable by every node in your disconnected cluster. In order to mirror the images, you must prepare your cluster by:

Adding the mirror registry certificates to the list of trusted CAs on your host.

Creating a .dockerconfigjson file that contains your image pull secret, which is from the cloud.openshift.com token.


Configuring credentials that allow image mirroring:
Mirroring the images
After the cluster is properly configured, you can mirror the images from your external repositories to the mirror repository.

Mirror the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) images:

Mirror the content for any other Red Hat-provided Operator:

Mirror the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image repository:

Mirror any other registries, as needed:


For more information about mirroring Operator catalogs, see Mirroring an Operator catalog.

For more information about the oc adm catalog mirror command, see the OpenShift CLI administrator command reference.
Configuring the cluster for the mirror registry
After creating and mirroring the images to the mirror registry, you must modify your cluster so that pods can pull images from the mirror registry.

You must:

Add the mirror registry credentials to the global pull secret.

Add the mirror registry server certificate to the cluster.

Create an ImageContentSourcePolicy custom resource (ICSP), which associates the mirror registry with the source registry.
Ensure applications continue to work
Before disconnecting the cluster from the network, ensure that your cluster is working as expected and all of your applications are working as expected.

Use the following commands to check the status of your cluster:

Ensure your pods are running:

Ensure your nodes are in the READY status:
Disconnect the cluster from the network
After mirroring all the required repositories and configuring your cluster to work as a disconnected cluster, you can disconnect the cluster from the network.

The Insights Operator is degraded when the cluster loses its Internet connection. You can avoid this problem by temporarily disabling the Insights Operator until you can restore it.
Restoring a degraded Insights Operator
Disconnecting the cluster from the network necessarily causes the cluster to lose the Internet connection. The Insights Operator becomes degraded because it requires access to Red Hat Insights.

This topic describes how to recover from a degraded Insights Operator.

Edit your .dockerconfigjson file to remove the cloud.openshift.com entry, for example:

Save the file.

Update the cluster secret with the edited .dockerconfigjson file:

Verify that the Insights Operator is no longer degraded:
Restoring the network
If you want to reconnect a disconnected cluster and pull images from online registries, delete the cluster's ImageContentSourcePolicy (ICSP) objects. Without the ICSP, pull requests to external registries are no longer redirected to the mirror registry.

View the ICSP objects in your cluster:

Delete all the ICSP objects you created when disconnecting your cluster:

Wait for all the nodes to restart and return to the READY status and verify that the registries.conf file is pointing to the original registries and not the mirror registries: