Scheduling virtual machines

You can schedule a virtual machine (VM) on a node by ensuring that the VM's CPU model and policy attribute are matched for compatibility with the CPU models and policy attributes supported by the node.
Policy attributes
You can schedule a virtual machine (VM) by specifying a policy attribute and a CPU feature that is matched for compatibility when the VM is scheduled on a node. A policy attribute specified for a VM determines how that VM is scheduled on a node.
Setting a policy attribute and CPU feature
You can set a policy attribute and CPU feature for each virtual machine (VM) to ensure that it is scheduled on a node according to policy and feature. The CPU feature that you set is verified to ensure that it is supported by the host CPU or emulated by the hypervisor.

Edit the domain spec of your VM configuration file. The following example sets the CPU feature and the require policy for a virtual machine (VM):
Scheduling virtual machines with the supported CPU model
You can configure a CPU model for a virtual machine (VM) to schedule it on a node where its CPU model is supported.

Edit the domain spec of your virtual machine configuration file. The following example shows a specific CPU model defined for a VM:
Scheduling virtual machines with the host model
When the CPU model for a virtual machine (VM) is set to host-model, the VM inherits the CPU model of the node where it is scheduled.

Edit the domain spec of your VM configuration file. The following example shows host-model being specified for the virtual machine:
Scheduling virtual machines with a custom scheduler
You can use a custom scheduler to schedule a virtual machine (VM) on a node.

A secondary scheduler is configured for your cluster.


Add the custom scheduler to the VM configuration by editing the VirtualMachine manifest. For example:


Verify that the VM is using the custom scheduler specified in the VirtualMachine manifest by checking the virt-launcher pod events:


Deploying a secondary scheduler