Upgrading the MetalLB

If you are currently running version 4.10 or an earlier version of the MetalLB Operator, please note that automatic updates to any version later than 4.10 do not work. Upgrading to a newer version from any version of the MetalLB Operator that is 4.11 or later is successful. For example, upgrading from version 4.12 to version 4.13 will occur smoothly.

A summary of the upgrade procedure for the MetalLB Operator from 4.10 and earlier is as follows:

Delete the installed MetalLB Operator version for example 4.10. Ensure that the namespace and the metallb custom resource are not removed.

Using the CLI, install the MetalLB Operator {product-version} in the same namespace where the previous version of the MetalLB Operator was installed.


This procedure does not apply to automatic z-stream updates of the MetalLB Operator, which follow the standard straightforward method.
For detailed steps to upgrade the MetalLB Operator from 4.10 and earlier, see the guidance that follows. As a cluster administrator, start the upgrade process by deleting the MetalLB Operator by using the OpenShift CLI (oc) or the web console.
Deleting the MetalLB Operator from a cluster using the web console
Cluster administrators can delete installed Operators from a selected namespace by using the web console.

Access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster web console using an account with
cluster-admin permissions.


Navigate to the Operators → Installed Operators page.

Search for the MetalLB Operator. Then, click on it.

On the right side of the Operator Details page, select Uninstall Operator from the Actions drop-down menu.

Select Uninstall to remove the Operator, Operator deployments, and pods. Following this action, the Operator stops running and no longer receives updates.
Deleting MetalLB Operator from a cluster using the CLI
Cluster administrators can delete installed Operators from a selected namespace by using the CLI.

Access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using an account with
cluster-admin permissions.

oc command installed on workstation.


Check the current version of the subscribed MetalLB Operator in the currentCSV field:

Delete the subscription:

Delete the CSV for the Operator in the target namespace using the currentCSV value from the previous step:
Editing the MetalLB Operator Operator group
When upgrading from any MetalLB Operator version up to and including 4.10 to 4.11 and later, remove spec.targetNamespaces from the Operator group custom resource (CR). You must remove the spec regardless of whether you used the web console or the CLI to delete the MetalLB Operator.

The MetalLB Operator version 4.11 or later only supports the AllNamespaces install mode, whereas 4.10 or earlier versions support OwnNamespace or SingleNamespace modes.
You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster with cluster-admin permissions.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


List the Operator groups in the metallb-system namespace by running the following command:

Verify that the spec.targetNamespaces is present in the Operator group CR associated with the metallb-system namespace by running the following command:

Edit the Operator group and remove the targetNamespaces and metallb-system present under the spec section by running the following command:

Verify the spec.targetNamespaces is removed from the Operator group custom resource associated with the metallb-system namespace by running the following command:
Upgrading the MetalLB Operator
Access the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


Verify that the metallb-system namespace still exists:

Verify the metallb custom resource still exists:

Follow the guidance in "Installing from OperatorHub using the CLI" to install the latest {product-version} version of the MetalLB Operator.

Verify the upgraded version of the Operator is now the {product-version} version.
Additional resources
Deleting Operators from a cluster

Installing the MetalLB Operator