# Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 release notes


Red Hat Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides developers and IT organizations with a hybrid cloud application platform for deploying both new and existing applications on secure, scalable resources with minimal configuration and management. Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform supports a wide selection of programming languages and frameworks, such as Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, and PHP.
Built on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Kubernetes, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides a more secure and scalable multitenant operating system for today's enterprise-class applications, while delivering integrated application runtimes and libraries. Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform enables organizations to meet security, privacy, compliance, and governance requirements.

# About this release

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform (RHSA-2024:11038) is now available. This release uses Kubernetes 1.32 with CRI-O runtime. New features, changes, and known issues that pertain to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 are included in this topic.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 clusters are available at https://console.redhat.com/openshift. From the Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console, you can deploy Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters to either on-premises or cloud environments.

You must use RHCOS machines for the control plane and for the compute machines.

The support lifecycle for odd-numbered releases, such as Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, on all supported architectures, including x86_64, 64-bit ARM (aarch64), IBM Power&#174; (ppc64le), and IBM Z&#174; (s390x) architectures is 18 months. For more information about support for all versions, see the Red Hat Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy.

Commencing with the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14 release, Red&#160;Hat is simplifying the administration and management of Red&#160;Hat shipped cluster Operators with the introduction of three new life cycle classifications; Platform Aligned, Platform Agnostic, and Rolling Stream. These life cycle classifications provide additional ease and transparency for cluster administrators to understand the life cycle policies of each Operator and form cluster maintenance and upgrade plans with predictable support boundaries. For more information, see OpenShift Operator Life Cycles.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is designed for FIPS. When running Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) or Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) booted in FIPS mode, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform core components use the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-2/140-3 Validation on only the x86_64, ppc64le, and s390x architectures.

For more information about the NIST validation program, see Cryptographic Module Validation Program. For the latest NIST status for the individual versions of RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted for validation, see Compliance Activities and Government Standards.

# Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform layered and dependent component support and compatibility

The scope of support for layered and dependent components of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform changes independently of the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version. To determine the current support status and compatibility for an add-on, refer to its release notes. For more information, see the Red Hat Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy.

# New features and enhancements

This release adds improvements related to the following components and concepts:

## Authentication and authorization

### Enabling direct authentication with an external OIDC identity provider (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can enable direct integration with an external OpenID Connect (OIDC) identity provider to issue tokens for authentication. This bypasses the built-in OAuth server and uses the external identity provider directly.

By integrating directly with an external OIDC provider, you can leverage the advanced capabilities of your preferred OIDC provider instead of being limited by the capabilities of the built-in OAuth server. Your organization can manage users and groups from a single interface, while also streamlining authentication across multiple clusters and in hybrid environments. You can also integrate with existing tools and solutions.

Direct authentication is available as a Technology Preview feature.

For more information, see Enabling direct authentication with an external OIDC identity provider.

### Enable ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding Kubernetes feature by default

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding feature is now enabled by default, aligning with upstream Kubernetes behavior. This feature allows service account tokens to be bound directly to node objects in addition to the existing binding options. Benefits of this change include enhanced security through automatic token invalidation when bound nodes are deleted and better protection against token replay attacks across different nodes.

## Documentation

### Consolidated etcd documentation

This release includes an etcd section, which consolidates all of the existing documentation about etcd for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. For more information, see Overview of etcd.

### Tutorials guide

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 now includes a Tutorials guide, which takes the place of the Getting started guide in previous releases. The existing tutorials were refreshed and the guide now focuses solely on hands-on tutorial content. It also provides a jumping off point to other recommended hands-on learning resources for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform across Red&#160;Hat.

For more information, see Tutorials.

## Edge computing

### Using RHACM PolicyGenerator resources to manage GitOps ZTP cluster policies (General Availability)

You can now use PolicyGenerator resources and Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (RHACM) to deploy polices for managed clusters with GitOps ZTP.
The PolicyGenerator API is part of the Open Cluster Management standard and provides a generic way of patching resources, which is not possible with the PolicyGenTemplate API.
Using PolicyGenTemplate resources to manage and deploy polices will be deprecated in an upcoming Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release.

For more information, see Configuring managed cluster policies by using PolicyGenerator resources.

### Configuring a local arbiter node (Technology Preview)

You can configure an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster with two control plane nodes and one local arbiter node so to retain high availability (HA) while reducing infrastructure costs for your cluster. This configuration is only supported for bare-metal installations.

A local arbiter node is a lower-cost, co-located machine that participates in control plane quorum decisions. Unlike a standard control plane node, the arbiter node does not run the full set of control plane services. You can use this configuration to maintain HA in your cluster with only two fully provisioned control plane nodes instead of three.

To enable this feature, you must define the arbiter machine pool in the install-config.yaml file and enable the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set.

Configuring a local arbiter node is available as a Technology Preview feature. For more information, see Configuring a local arbiter node.

### Coordinating reboots for configuration changes

This release adds reboot policies to ZTP reference that can be applied by Topology Aware Lifecycle Manager (TALM) to coordinate reboots across a fleet of spoke clusters when configuration changes require a reboot, such as deferred tuning changes. TALM reboots all nodes in the targeted MachineConfigPool object on the selected clusters when the reboot policy is applied.

Instead of rebooting nodes after each individual change, you can apply all configuration updates through policies and then trigger a single, coordinated reboot.

For more information, see Coordinating reboots for configuration changes.

## Extensions (OLM v1)

### Preflight permissions check for cluster extensions (Technology Preview)

With this release, the Operator Controller performs a dry run of the installation process when you try to install an extension. This dry run verifies that the specified service account has the required role-based access control (RBAC) rules for the roles and bindings defined by the bundle.

If the service account is missing any required RBAC rules, the preflight check fails before the actual installation proceeds and generates a report.

For more information, see Preflight permissions check for cluster extensions (Technology Preview)

### Deploying a cluster extension in a specific namespace (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can deploy an extension in a specific namespace by using the OwnNamespace or SingleNamespace install modes as a Technology Preview feature for registry+v1 Operator bundles.

For more information, see Deploying a cluster extension in a specific namespace (Technology Preview)

## Hosted control planes

Because hosted control planes releases asynchronously from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, it has its own release notes. For more information, see Hosted control planes release notes.

### Hosted control planes on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) 17.1 (Technology Preview)

Hosted control planes on RHOSP 17.1 are now supported as a Technology Preview.

For more information, see Deploying hosted control planes on OpenStack.

## IBM Power

The IBM Power&#174; release on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 adds improvements and new capabilities to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.

This release introduces support for the following features on IBM Power:

* Expand Compliance Operator support with profiles for Defense Information Systems Agency Security Technical Implementation Guide (DISA STIG)

## IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE

The IBM Z&#174; and IBM&#174; LinuxONE release on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 adds improvements and new capabilities to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.

This release introduces support for the following features on IBM Z&#174; and IBM&#174; LinuxONE:

* Support for IBM(R) z17 and IBM(R) LinuxONE 5
* Boot volume Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS) encryption via IBM(R) Crypto Express (CEX)

## IBM Power, IBM Z, and IBM LinuxONE support matrix

Starting in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14, Extended Update Support (EUS) is extended to the IBM Power&#174; and the IBM Z&#174; platform. For more information, see the OpenShift EUS Overview.











1. Persistent shared storage must be provisioned by using either Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation or other supported storage protocols.
2. Persistent non-shared storage must be provisioned by using local storage, such as iSCSI, FC, or by using LSO with DASD, FCP, or EDEV/FBA.

## Insights Operator

### Insights Runtime Extractor is generally available

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18, the Insights Operator introduced the Insights Runtime Extractor workload data collection feature as a Technology Preview feature to help Red&#160;Hat better understand the workload of your containers.
Now, in version 4.19, the feature is generally available.
The Insights Runtime Extractor feature gathers runtime workload data and sends it to Red&#160;Hat.

## Installation and update

### Cluster API replaces Terraform on IBM Cloud installations

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the installation program uses the Cluster API instead of Terraform to provision cluster infrastructure during installations on IBM Cloud.

### Installing a cluster on AWS in the Malaysia and Thailand regions

You can now install an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on Amazon Web Services (AWS) in the Malaysia (ap-southeast-5) and Thailand (ap-southeast-7) regions.

For more information, see Supported Amazon Web Services (AWS) regions.

### Cluster API replaces Terraform on Microsoft Azure Stack Hub installations

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the installation program uses the Cluster API instead of Terraform to provision clusters during installer-provisioned infrastructure installations on Microsoft Azure Stack Hub.

### Support added for additional Microsoft Azure instance types

Additional Microsoft Azure instance types for machine types based on 64-bit x86 architecture have been tested with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For the Dxv6 machine series, the following instance types have been tested:

* StandardDdsv6Family
* StandardDldsv6Family
* StandardDlsv6Family
* StandardDsv6Family

For the Lsv4 and Lasv4 machine series, the following instance types have been tested:

* standardLasv4Family
* standardLsv4Family

For the ND and NV machine series, the following instance types have been tested:

* StandardNVadsV710v5Family
* Standard NDASv4_A100 Family

For more information, see Tested instance types for Azure and Azure documentation (Microsoft documentation).

### Outbound access for VMs in Microsoft Azure will be retired

On 30 September 2025, the default outbound access connectivity for all new virtual machines (VMs) in Microsoft Azure will be retired. To enhance security, Azure is moving towards a secure-by-default model where default outbound access to the internet will be turned off. However, configuration changes to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform are not required. By default, the installation program creates an outbound rule for the load balancer.

For more information, see Azure Updates (Microsoft documentation), Azure's outbound connectivity methods (Microsoft documentation), and Preparing to install a cluster on Azure.

### Additional Confidential Computing platforms for GCP

With this release, you can use additional Confidential Computing platforms on GCP. The new supported platforms, which can be enabled in the install-config.yaml file prior to installation, or configured after installation by using machine sets and control plane machine sets, are as follows:

* AMDEncryptedVirtualization, which enables Confidential Computing with AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization (AMD SEV)
* AMDEncryptedVirtualizationNestedPaging, which enables Confidential Computing with AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization Secure Nested Paging (AMD SEV-SNP)
* IntelTrustedDomainExtensions, which enables Confidential Computing with Intel Trusted Domain Extensions (Intel TDX)

For more information, see Installation configuration parameters for Google Cloud Platform, Configuring Confidential VM by using machine sets (control plane), and Configuring Confidential VM by using machine sets (compute).

### Installing a cluster on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) with a user-provisioned DNS (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can enable a user-provisioned domain name server (DNS) instead of the default cluster-provisioned DNS solution. For example, your organization&#8217;s security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Google Cloud DNS. You can manage your DNS only for the IP addresses of the API and Ingress servers. If you use this feature, you must provide your own DNS solution that includes records for api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>. and *.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>.. Enabling a user-provisioned DNS is available as a Technology Preview feature.

For more information, see Enabling user-managed DNS.

### Installing a cluster on VMware vSphere with multiple disks (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can install a cluster on VMware vSphere with multiple storage disks as a Technology Preview feature. You can assign these additional disks to special functions within the cluster, such as etcd storage.

For more information, see Optional vSphere configuration parameters.

### Enabling boot diagnostics collection during installation on Microsoft Azure

With this release, you can enable boot diagnostics collection when you install a cluster on Microsoft Azure. Boot diagnostics is a debugging feature for Azure virtual machines (VMs) to identify VM boot failures. You can set the bootDiagnostics parameter in the install-config.yaml file for compute machines, for control plane machines, or for all machines.

For more information, see Additional Azure configuration parameters.

### Required administrator acknowledgment when updating from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 to 4.19

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 uses Kubernetes 1.32, which removed several deprecated APIs.

A cluster administrator must provide manual acknowledgment before the cluster can be updated from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 to 4.19. This is to help prevent issues after updating to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, where APIs that have been removed are still in use by workloads, tools, or other components running on or interacting with the cluster. Administrators must evaluate their cluster for any APIs in use that will be removed and migrate the affected components to use the appropriate new API version. After this is done, the administrator can provide the administrator acknowledgment.

All Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 clusters require this administrator acknowledgment before they can be updated to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For more information, see Preparing to update to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

### OpenShift zones support for vSphere host groups (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can map Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform failure domains to VMware vSphere host groups. This enables you to make use of the high availability offered by a vSphere stretched cluster configuration. This feature is available as a Technology Preview in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For information on configuring host groups at installation, see VMware vSphere host group enablement.

For information on configuring host groups for existing clusters, see Specifying multiple host groups for your cluster on vSphere.

### Nutanix support for the Agent-based Installer

With this release, you can now use the Agent-based Installer to install a cluster on Nutanix.
Installing a cluster on Nutanix with the Agent-based Installer is enabled by setting the platform parameter to nutanix in the install-config.yaml file.

For more information, see Required configuration parameters in the Agent-based Installer documentation.

## Machine Config Operator

### New naming for features

Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image layering is now called image mode for OpenShift. As a part of this change, on-cluster layering is now  called on-cluster image mode and out-of-cluster layering is now out-of-cluster image mode.

The updated boot images feature is now called boot image management.

### Image mode for OpenShift is now generally available

Image mode for OpenShift, formerly called on-cluster layering, is now Generally Available (GA). The following changes have been introduced with the promotion to GA:

* The API version is now machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1. The new version includes the following changes:
* The baseImagePullSecret parameter is now optional. If not specified, the default global-pull-secret-copy is used.
* The buildInputs parameter is no longer required. All parameters previously under the buildInputs parameter are promoted one level.
* The containerfileArch parameter now supports multiple architectures. Previously, only noarch was supported.
* The required imageBuilderType is now Job. Previously, the required builder was PodImageBuilder.
* The renderedImagePushspec parameter is now renderedImagePushSpec.
* The buildOutputs and currentImagePullSecret parameters are no longer required.
* The output of the oc describe MachineOSConfig and oc describe MachineOSBuild commands have multiple differences.
* The global-pull-secret-copy is automatically added to the openshift-machine-config-operator namespace.
* You can now revert an on-cluster custom layered image back to the base image by removing a label from the MachineOSConfig object
* You can now automatically delete an on-cluster custom layered image by deleting the associated MachineOSBuild object.
* The must-gather for the Machine Config Operator now includes data on the MachineOSConfig and MachineOSBuild objects.
* On-cluster layering is now supported in disconnected environments.
* On-cluster layering is now supported in single node OpenShift (SNO) clusters.

### Boot image management is now default for Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Amazon Web Services (AWS)

The boot image management feature, previously called updated boot images, is now the default behavior in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Amazon Web Services (AWS) clusters. As such, after updating to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the boot images in your cluster are automatically updated to version 4.19. With subsequent updates, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) again updates the boot images in your cluster. A boot images is associated with a machine set and is used when scaling new nodes. Any new nodes you create after updating are based on the new version. Current nodes are not affected by this feature.

Before upgrading to 4.19, you must opt-out of this default behavior or acknowledge this change before proceeding. For more information, see Disabling boot image management.


[NOTE]
----
The managed boot images feature is available for only GCP and AWS clusters. For all other platforms, the MCO does not update the boot image with each cluster update.
----

### Changes to the Machine Config Operator certificates

The Machine Config Server (MCS) CA bundle created by the installation program is now stored in the machine-config-server-ca config map in the openshift-machine-config-operator namespace. The bundle was previously stored in the root-ca configmap in the kube-system namespace. The root-ca configmap is no longer used in a cluster that cluster that is updated to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. This change was made to make it clear that this CA bundle is managed by the Machine Config Operator (MCO).

The MCS signing key is stored in the machine-config-server-ca secret in the openshift-machine-config-operator namespace.

The MCS CA and MCS cert are valid for 10 years and are automatically rotated by the MCO at approximately 8 years. Upon update to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the CA signing key is not present. As a result, the CA bundle is immediately considered expired when the MCO certificate controller comes up. This expiration causes an immediate certificate rotation, even if the cluster is not 10 years old. After that point, the next rotation takes place at the standard 8 year period.

For more information about the MCO certificates, see Machine Config Operator certificates.

## Machine management

### Migrating resources between the Cluster API and the Machine API (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can migrate some resources between the Cluster API and the Machine API on Amazon Web Services (AWS) as a Technology Preview feature.
For more information, see Migrating Machine API resources to Cluster API resources.

To support this capability, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Cluster API documentation now includes additional configuration details for AWS clusters.

### Custom prefixes for control plane machine names

With this release, you can customize the prefix of machine names for machines created by the control plane machine set.
This feature is enabled by modifying the spec.machineNamePrefix parameter of the ControlPlaneMachineSet custom resource.

For more information, see Adding a custom prefix to control plane machine names.

### Configuring Capacity Reservations on Amazon Web Services clusters

With this release, you can deploy machines that use Capacity Reservations, including On-Demand Capacity Reservations and Capacity Blocks for ML, on Amazon Web Services clusters.

You can configure these features with compute and control plane machine sets.

### Support for multiple VMware vSphere data disks (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can add up to 29 disks to the virtual machine (VM) controller for your vSphere cluster as a Technology Preview feature.
This capability is available for compute and control plane machine sets.

## Monitoring

The in-cluster monitoring stack for this release includes the following new and modified features:

### Updates to monitoring stack components and dependencies

This release includes the following version updates for in-cluster monitoring stack components and dependencies:

* Alertmanager to 0.28.1
* Prometheus to 3.2.1
* Prometheus Operator to 0.81.0
* Thanos to 0.37.2
* kube-state-metrics to 2.15.0
* node-exporter to 1.9.1

### Changes to alerting rules


[NOTE]
----
Red Hat does not guarantee backward compatibility for recording rules or alerting rules.
----

* Added the PrometheusPossibleNarrowSelectors alert to warn users when PromQL queries or metric relabel configurations use selectors that could be too restrictive and might not take into account that values on the le label of classic histograms or the quantile label of summaries are floats in Prometheus v3. For more information, see the "Prometheus v3 upgrade" section.

### Prometheus v3 upgrade

This release introduces a major update to the Prometheus component, transitioning from v2 to v3. The monitoring stack and other core components include all of the necessary adjustments to ensure a smooth upgrade. However, some user-managed configurations might require modifications. The key changes include the following items:

* The values of the le label for classic histograms and the quantile label for summaries are normalized during ingestion. For example, the example_bucket{le="10"} metric selector is ingested as example_bucket{le="10.0"}. As a result, alerts, recording rules, dashboards, and relabeling configurations that reference label values as whole numbers, for example, le="10", might no longer work as intended.

To mitigate the issue, update your selectors:
* If your queries need to cover data from both before and after the Prometheus upgrade, ensure both values are considered, for example, use a regular expression, example_bucket{le=~"10(.0)?"}.
* For queries that only cover data after the upgrade, use float values, for example, le="10.0".
* Configurations that send alerts to additional Alertmanager instances through additionalAlertmanagerConfigs by using the Alertmanager v1 API are no longer supported.

To mitigate the issue, upgrade any affected Alertmanager instances to support the v2 API, which is supported since Alertmanager v0.16.0, and update your monitoring configuration to use the v2 scheme.

For more information about the changes between Prometheus v2 and v3, see Prometheus 3.0 migration guide.

### Metrics collection profiles is generally available

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.13 introduced the ability to set a metrics collection profile for default platform monitoring to collect either the default amount of metrics data or a minimal amount of metrics data. In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, metrics collection profiles are now generally available.

For more information, see About metrics collection profiles and Choosing a metrics collection profile.

### Added cluster proxy support for external Alertmanager instances

With this release, external Alertmanager instances now use the cluster-wide HTTP proxy settings for communication. The Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO) reads the cluster-wide proxy settings and configures the appropriate proxy URL for the Alertmanager endpoints.

### Strict validation for the Cluster Monitoring Operator is improved

With this release, the strict validation introduced in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 is improved. Error messages now clearly identify the affected field, and validation is case-sensitive to ensure more accurate and consistent configuration.

For more information, see (OCPBUGS-42671) and (OCPBUGS-54516).

## Networking

### Creating a route with externally managed certificate (General Availability)

With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform routes can be configured with third-party certificate management solutions, utilizing the .spec.tls.externalCertificate field in the route API. This allows you to reference externally managed TLS certificates through secrets, streamlining the process by eliminating manual certificate management. By using externally managed certificates, you reduce errors, ensure a smoother certificate update process, and enable the OpenShift router to promptly serve renewed certificates. For more information, see Creating a route with externally managed certificate.

### Support for using Gateway API to configure cluster ingress traffic (General Availability)

With this release, support for managing ingress cluster traffic using Gateway API resources is Generally Available. Gateway API provides a robust networking solution within the transport layer, L4, and the application layer, L7, for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters using a standardized open source ecosystem.

For more information, see Gateway API with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform networking.


[IMPORTANT]
----
Gateway API resources must conform to the supported Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform API surface. This means you cannot use another vendor-specific resource, such as Istio's VirtualService, with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform's implementation of Gateway API. For more information, see Gateway API implementation for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
----

### Support for managing Gateway API custom resource definition (CRD) lifecycle

With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform manages the lifecycle of Gateway API CRDs. This means that the Ingress Operator handles the required versioning and management of resources. Any Gateway API resources created in a previous Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version must be re-created and redeployed so that it conforms to the specifications required by the Ingress Operator.

For more information, see Preparing for Gateway API management succession by the Ingress Operator.

### Updates to Gateway API custom resource definitions (CRDs)

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 updates Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh to version 3.0.2, and Gateway API to version 1.2.1. See the Service Mesh 3.0.0 release notes and the Gateway API 1.2.1 changelog for more information.

### Enable OVS balance-slb mode for your cluster (General Availability)

You can enable the Open vSwitch (OVS) balance-slb mode on infrastructure where your cluster runs so that two or more physical interfaces can share their network traffic. For more information, see Enabling OVS balance-slb mode for your cluster.

### Allocate API and ingress load balancers to specific subnets

With this release, you can now allocate load balancers to customize deployments when installing an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on AWS. This feature ensures optimal traffic distribution, high application availability, uninterrupted service, and network segmentation.

For more information, see Installation configuration parameters on AWS and Allocating load balancers to specific subnets.

### Dual-port NICs for improved redundancy in PTP ordinary clocks (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can use a dual-port network interface controller (NIC) to improve redundancy for Precision Time Protocol (PTP) ordinary clocks.
Available as a Technology Preview, in a dual-port NIC configuration for an ordinary clock, if one port fails, the standby port takes over, maintaining PTP timing synchronization.


[NOTE]
----
You can configure PTP ordinary clocks with added redundancy on x86 architecture nodes with dual-port NICs only.
----

For more information, see Using dual-port NICs to improve redundancy for PTP ordinary clocks.

### Support for conditional webhook matching in the SR-IOV Network Operator

You can now enable the featureGates.resourceInjectorMatchCondition feature in the SriovOperatorConfig object to limit the scope of the Network Resources Injector webhook. If this feature is enabled, the webhook applies only to pods with the secondary network annotation k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks.

If this feature is disabled, the webhookâ€™s failurePolicy is set to Ignore by default. This configuration can cause pods requesting SR-IOV networks to be deployed without the required resource injection if the webhook is unavailable. If this feature is enabled and the webhook is unavailable, pods without the annotation are still deployed, preventing unnecessary disruptions to other workloads.

For more information, see About the Network Resources Injector

### Enabling DPU device management with the DPU Operator

With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform introduces the Data Processing Unit (DPU) Operator and using the Operator to manage DPU devices. The DPU Operator manages components on compute nodes that have configured DPUs, such as enabling the offloading of data networking, storage, and security workloads. Enabling DPU device management leads to improved cluster performance, reduced latency, and enhanced security, that overall contribute to a more efficient cluster infrastructure. For more information, see About DPU and the DPU Operator.

### Localnet topology for user-defined networks (Generally Available)

Administrators can now use the ClusterUserDefinedNetwork custom resource to deploy secondary networks on a Localnet topology. This feature allows pods and virtual machines connected to the localnet network to egress to the physical network. For more information, see Creating a ClusterUserDefinedNetwork CR for a Localnet topology.

### Enable port isolation for a Linux bridge NAD (Generally Available)

You can enable port isolation for a Linux bridge network attachment definition (NAD) so that virtual machines (VMs) or pods that run on the same virtual LAN (VLAN) can operate in isolation from one another. For more information, see Enabling port isolation for a Linux bridge NAD.

### Fast IPAM configuration for the Whereabouts IPAM CNI plugin (Technology Preview)

To improve the performance of Whereabouts, especially if nodes in your cluster run a high amount of pods, you can now enable the Fast IP Address Management (IPAM) feature. The Fast IPAM feature uses nodeslicepools, which are managed by the Whereabouts Controller, to optimize IP address allocation for nodes. For more information, see Fast IPAM configuration for the Whereabouts IPAM CNI plugin.

### Unnumbered BGP peering (Technology Preview)

With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform introduces unnumbered BGP peering.
Available as a Technology Preview feature, you can use the spec.interface field of the BGP peer custom resource to configure unnumbered BGP peering.

### Create a custom DNS host name to resolve DNS connectivity issues

In a disconnected environment where the external DNS server cannot be reached, you can resolve Kubernetes NMState Operator health probe issues by specifying a custom DNS host name in the NMState custom resource definition (CRD). For more information, see Creating a custom DNS host name to resolve DNS connectivity issues.

### Removal of PTP events REST API v1 and events consumer application sidecar

With this release, the PTP events REST API v1 and events consumer application sidecar support are removed.

You must use the O-RAN compliant PTP events REST API v2 instead.

For more information, see Developing PTP event consumer applications with the REST API v2.

### Re-add a previously deleted secret with RouteExternalCertificate feature gate enabled

If you enabled the RouteExternalCertificate feature gate for your cluster, you can now re-add a previously deleted secret. (OCPBUGS-33958)

## OpenShift CLI (oc)

### Mirroring and verifying image signatures in oc-mirror plugin v2

Starting with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the oc-mirror plugin v2 supports mirroring and verifying cosign tag-based signatures for container images.

## Operator development

### Supported Operator base images

The following base images for Operator projects are updated for compatibility with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. The runtime functionality and configuration APIs for these base images are supported for bug fixes and for addressing CVEs.

* The base image for Ansible-based Operator projects
* The base image for Helm-based Operator projects

For more information, see Updating the base image for existing Ansible- or Helm-based Operator projects for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 and later (Red&#160;Hat Knowledgebase).

## Postinstallation configuration

### Using bare metal as a service (Technology Preview)

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, you can deploy non-Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes by using bare metal as a service (BMaaS). BMaaS nodes can run workloads that might not be suitable for containerization or virtualization. For example, workloads such as applications that require direct hardware access, conduct high-performance computing tasks or are legacy applications and operate independently of the cluster are suitable for deployment by using BMaaS.

For more information, see Using bare metal as a service.

## Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)

### RHCOS uses RHEL 9.6

RHCOS uses Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9.6 packages in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. These packages ensure that your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform instances receive the latest fixes, features, enhancements, hardware support, and driver updates.

## Scalability and performance

### Performance profile kernel page size configuration

With this update, you can specify larger kernel page sizes to improve performance for memory-intensive, high-performance workloads on ARM infrastructure nodes with the realtime kernel disabled. For more information, see Configuring kernel page sizes.

### Updates to the cluster-compare plugin

This release includes the following usability and functional updates to the cluster-compare plugin:

* Match capture groups more effectively: You can now match across and between templates more accurately with improved capture group handling.
* Generate JUnit output: You can use the -o junit flag to output results in junit format, making it easier to integrate with testing or CI/CD systems.
* sprig function support: The cluster-compare plugin supports all sprig library functions, except for the env and expandenv functions. For the full list of sprig library functions, see Sprig Function Documentation.

For a complete list of available template functions, see Reference template functions

### Tuning hosted control planes using a performance profile

With this update, you can now tune nodes in hosted control planes for low latency by applying a performance profile. For more information, see Creating a performance profile for hosted control planes.

## Security

### Control plane now supports TLS 1.3 and the Modern TLS security profile

With this release, the control plane supports TLS 1.3. You can now use the Modern TLS security profile for the control plane.

For more information, see Configuring the TLS security profile for the control plane.

### The External Secrets Operator for Red Hat OpenShift (Technology Preview)

With this release, you can use the External Secrets Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to authenticate with the external secrets store, retrieve secrets, and inject the retrieved secrets into a native Kubernetes secret. The External Secrets Operator for Red Hat OpenShift is available as a Technology Preview.

For more information, see External Secrets Operator for Red Hat OpenShift overview

## Storage

### Support for the Secrets Store CSI driver in disconnected environments

With this release, the secrets store providers support by using the Secrets Store CSI driver in disconnected clusters.

For more information, see Support for disconnected environments.

### Azure File cross-subscription support is generally available

Cross-subscription support allows you to have an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster in one Azure subscription and mount your Azure file share in another Azure subscription using the Azure File Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver. The subscriptions must be in the same tenant.

This feature is generally available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For more information, see AWS EFS CSI cross account support.

### Volume Attributes Classes (Technology Preview)

Volume Attributes Classes provide a way for administrators to describe "classes" of storage they offer. Different classes might correspond to different quality-of-service levels.

Volume Attributes Classes in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 is available only with AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) persistent disk (PD) Container Storage Interface (CSI).

You can apply a Volume Attributes Classes to a persistent volume claim (PVC). If a new Volume Attributes Class becomes available in the cluster, you can update the PVC with the new Volume Attributes Classes if needed.

Volume Attributes Classes have parameters that describe volumes belonging to them. If a parameter is omitted, the default is used at volume provisioning. If a user applies the PVC with a different Volume Attributes Class with omitted parameters, the default value of the parameters might be used depending on the CSI driver implementation. For more information, see the related CSI driver documentation.

Volume Attributes Classes is available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 with Technology Preview status.

For more information, see Volume Attributes Classes.

### New CLI command to show PVC usage (Technology Preview)

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 introduces a new command to view persistent volume claim usage. This feature has Technology Preview status.

For more information, see Viewing PVC usage statistics.

### CSI volume resizing recovery is generally available

Previously, you might expand a persistent volume claim (PVC) to a size that is not supported by the underlying storage provider. In this case, the expansion controller typically tries forever to expand the volume and keeps failing.

This new feature allows you to recover and provide another resize value for the PVC. Resizing recovery is supported as generally available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For more information about resizing volumes, see Expanding persistent volumes.

For more information about recovering when resizing volumes, see Recovering from failure when expanding volumes.

### Support for resizing vSphere in-tree migrated volumes is generally available

Previously, VMware vSphere persistent volumes that were migrated from in-tree to Container Storage Interface (CSI) could not be resized. With Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, resizing migrated volumes is supported. This feature is generally available.

For more information about resizing volumes, see Expanding persistent volumes.

### Disabling and enabling storage on vSphere is generally available

Cluster administrators might want to disable the VMware vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver as a Day 2 operation, so the vSphere CSI Driver does not interface with your vSphere setup.

This features was introduced in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.17 with Technology Preview status. This feature is now supported as generally available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For more information, see Disabling and enabling storage on vSphere.

### Increasing the maximum number of volumes per node for vSphere (Technology Preview)

For VMware vSphere version 7, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform restricts the maximum number of volumes per node to 59.

However, with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 for vSphere version 8 or later, you can increase the allowable number of volumes per node to a maximum of 255. Otherwise, the default value remains at 59.

This feature has Technology Preview status.

For more information, see Increasing maximum volumes per node for vSphere.

### Migrating CNS volumes between datastores for vSphere is fully supported

If you are running out of space in your current datastore, or want to move to a more performant datastore, you can migrate VMware vSphere Cloud Native Storage (CNS) volumes between datastores. This applies to both attached and detached volumes.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform now fully supports migration of CNS volume using the vCenter UI. Migrated volumes should work
as expected and should not result in non-functional persistent volumes. CNS volumes can also be migrated while in use by pods.

This feature was introduced as a Development Preview in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.17, but is now fully supported  in 4.19.

Migrating CNS volumes between datastores requires VMware vSphere 8.0.2 or later or vSphere 7.0 Update 3o or later.

For more information, see Migrating CNS volumes between datastores for vSphere.

### NFS export options for Filestore storage class is generally available.

By default, a Filestore instance grants root level read/write access to all clients that share the same Google Cloud project and virtual private cloud (VPC) network. Network File System (NFS) export options can limit this access to certain IP ranges and specific user/group IDs for the Filestore instance. When creating a storage class, you can set these options using the nfs-export-options-on-create parameter.

NFS export options is supported as generally available in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.

For more information, see NFS export options.

## Web console

Starting with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the perspectives in the web console have unified to simplify navigation, reduce context switching, streamline tasks, and provide users with a more cohesive Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform experience.

With this unified design, there is no longer a Developer perspective in the default view; however, all Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console features are discoverable to all users. If you are not the cluster owner, you might need to request permission for certain features from the cluster owner. The Developer perspective can still be manually enabled if you prefer.

The Getting Started pane in the web console provides resources such as, a tour of the console, information on setting up your cluster, a quick start for enabling the Developer perspective, and links to explore new features and capabilities.

### Patternfly 6 upgrade

The web console now uses Patternfly 6. Support for Patternfly 4 in the web console is no longer available.

This release also introduces the following updates to the web console. You can now do the following actions:

* Specify distinct console logos for both light and dark themes using the logos field in the .spec.customization.logos configuration, allowing for more comprehensive branding.
* Easily delete identity providers (IDPs) directly from the web console, streamlining authentication configuration without manual YAML file edits.
* Easily set the default StorageClass directly in the web console.
* Quickly find specific jobs in the web console by sorting the Created column by creation date and time.

# Notable technical changes

## Pods deploy with readOnlyRootFilesystem set to true

With this release, Cloud Credential Operator pods now deploy with the readOnlyRootFilesystem security context setting set to true. This enhances security by ensuring that the container root file system is mounted as read-only.

## Extended loopback certificate validity to three years for kube-apiserver

Previously, the self-signed loopback certificate for the Kubernetes API Server expired after one year. With this release, the expiration date of the certificate is extended to three years.

## Readiness probes exclude etcd checks

The readiness probes for the API server have been modified to exclude etcd checks. This prevents client connections from being closed if etcd is temporarily unavailable. This means that client connections persist through brief etcd unavailability and minimizes temporary API server outages.

## Installer automatically removes leftover Cloud Native Storage (CNS) volumes

The OpenShift installation program now automatically detects and removes leftover persistent storage volumes on VMware vSphere when you delete a cluster. This prevents orphaned volumes from consuming disk space and creating unnecessary alerts in vCenter.

# Deprecated and removed features

Some features available in previous releases have been deprecated or removed.

Deprecated functionality is still included in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and continues to be supported; however, it will be removed in a future release of this product and is not recommended for new deployments. For the most recent list of major functionality deprecated and removed within Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, refer to the table below. Additional details for more functionality that has been deprecated and removed are listed after the table.

In the following tables, features are marked with the following statuses:

* Not Available
* Technology Preview
* General Availability
* Deprecated
* Removed

## Bare metal monitoring deprecated and removed features



## Images deprecated and removed features



## Installation deprecated and removed features



## Networking deprecated and removed features



## Node deprecated and removed features



## OpenShift CLI (oc) deprecated and removed features



## Operator lifecycle and development deprecated and removed features



## Storage deprecated and removed features



## Updating clusters deprecated and removed features



## Web console deprecated and removed features



## Workloads deprecated and removed features



## Deprecated features

### oc adm pod-network command deprecated

The oc adm pod-network command for working with OpenShift SDN multitenant mode has been removed from the oc adm --help output. If the oc adm pod-network command is used, an error message is displayed to tell users that it has been deprecated.

### useModal hook for dynamic plugin SDK

With this release, support for the useModal hook in dynamic plugins are deprecated.

Starting with this release, use the useOverlay API hook to launch modals

## Removed features

### cgroup v1 has been removed

cgroup v1, which was deprecated in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16, is no longer supported and has been removed from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. If your cluster is using cgroup v1, you must configure cgroup v2 before you can upgrade to  Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. All workloads must now be compatible with cgroup v2.

For information on configuring cgroup v2 in your cluster, see Configuring Linux cgroup in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.18 documentation.

For more information on cgroup v2, see About Linux cgroup version 2 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 changes in the context of Red Hat OpenShift workloads (Red&#160;Hat blog).

### Package-based RHEL compute machines

With this release, support for the installation of packaged-based RHEL worker nodes is removed.

RHCOS image layering replaces this feature and supports installing additional packages on the base operating system of your worker nodes.

For information on how to identify and remove RHEL nodes in your cluster, see Preparing to update from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 to a newer version. For more information on image layering, see RHCOS image layering.

### APIs removed from Kubernetes 1.32

Kubernetes 1.32 removed the following deprecated APIs, so you must migrate manifests and API clients to use the appropriate API version. For more information about migrating removed APIs, see the Kubernetes documentation.



### Operator SDK CLI and related scaffolding and testing tools

With this release, the Red&#160;Hat-supported version of the Operator SDK CLI tool, including the related scaffolding and testing tools for Operator projects, is no longer released with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

Red&#160;Hat will provide bug fixes and support for versions of the Operator SDK that were released with earlier versions of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform according to the Product Life Cycles for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4 (Red&#160;Hat Customer Portal).

Operator authors with existing Operator projects can use the version of the Operator SDK CLI tool released with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 to maintain their projects and create Operator releases that target newer versions of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. For more information, see Updating the base image for existing Ansible- or Helm-based Operator projects for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 and later (Red&#160;Hat Knowledgebase).

For more information about the unsupported, community-maintained, version of the Operator SDK, see Operator SDK (Operator Framework).

# Bug fixes

## API Server and Authentication

* Previously, contents of the MachineConfig and ControllerConfig resources from group machineconfiguration.openshift.io were not excluded from audit logs. With this release, they are excluded from audit logs because they might contain secrets. (OCPBUGS-55709)
* Previously, the kube-apiserver service level objective (SLO) alert expression incorrectly summed read and write success ratios independently of total request volume. This led to misleading burn rate calculations during disruptions. With this release, the fix adjusts the calculation to properly weight success ratios by total request count. This results in accurate and reliable alerting based on the true proportion of successful requests. (OCPBUGS-49764)
* Previously, cluster bootstrap removal could break kube-apiserver readiness if etcd access was lost which could lead to downtime. With this release, each kube-apiserver has 2 stable etcd endpoints before removing bootstrap which maintains availability during rollout. (OCPBUGS-48673)
* Previously, the Static Pod Operator API allowed invalid node statuses with unset currentRevision and multiple nonzero targetRevision entries, which led to failures in node and installer controllers. With this release, new validation rules were added to enforce correct revision fields to ensure stable and consistent static pod status handling. (OCPBUGS-46380)
* Previously, the node controller applied stale NodeStatus data from its lister, unintentionally overwriting recent updates from other controllers. With this release, the fix uses managed fields to let controllers update separate entries without conflict which preserves accurate and concurrent node status updates. (OCPBUGS-46372)
* Previously, a fixed five minute timeout for removing the etcd bootstrap member started too early. This led to premature failures in HA clusters despite sufficient overall time. With this release, the narrow timeout is removed to rely on overall bootstrap progress instead, which ensures reliable and quorum-safe etcd bootstrap removal. (OCPBUGS-46363)
* Previously, bootstrapping would unblock after detecting two kube-apiserver endpoints, including the bootstrap instance, causing periods of 0% availability as rollouts occur with only one permanent instance. With this release, the teardown is delayed until multiple permanent instances are ready. This ensures continuous kube-apiserver availability during rollout. (OCPBUGS-46010)
* Previously, when the temporary control plane was down, the networkConfig.status.ServiceNetwork was not populated, and when generated certificates did not have the Kubernetes service IP in the SANs, the clients would fail to connect to the kube-apiserver through the default kubernetes service. With this release, a guard has been added to skip certificated generation if networkConfig.status.ServiceNetwork is nil. Client connections will be stable and valid. (OCPBUGS-45943)
* Previously, the installer deleted the bootstrap machine before the etcd member was removed. This led to quorum loss in HA clusters. With this release, the check from SNO is extended to all topologies, using the etcd operator's condition as a safe removal sign, which ensures etcd cluster stability during bootstrap teardown. (OCPBUGS-45482)
* Previously, the openshift-apiserver could panic when both image and error fields were unset during CRD request handling, this led to runtime crashes and instability in the API server under certain conditions. With this release, a guard is added to ensure no panic occurs by safely handling the case when both fields are unset, resulting in a more robust and stable CRD request handling process without crashes. (OCPBUGS-45861)

## Bare Metal Hardware Provisioning

* Previously, NetworkManager logs from the Ironic Python Agent (IPA) were not included in the ramdisk logs; instead only dmesg logs were included in the ramdisk logs. With this release, the ramdisk logs that exist in the metal3-ramdisk-logs container of a metal3 pod now contain the entire journal from the host instead of just dmesg logs and IPA. (OCPBUGS-56042)
* Previously, ramdisk logs did not include clear file separators, causing the content from one file to merge into random lines of another file. Because of this issue, distinguishing what content belonged to which file was difficult. With this release, file entries now include file separators so that each file is clearly indicated from the contents of the other file being merged into a ramdisk log file. (OCPBUGS-55743)
* Previously, if you forgot to include a Redfish system ID, such as redfish://host/redfish/v1/ instead of redfish://host/redfish/v1/Self, in a Baseboard Management Console (BMC) URL, a JSON parsing issue existed in Ironic. With this release, BMO can now handle URLs without a Redfish system ID as a valid address without causing a JSON parsing issue. (OCPBUGS-56026)
* Previously, a race condition existed during provisioning which, in case of a slow DHCP response, could cause different hostnames to be used for machine and node objects. This could prevent CSRs of worker nodes from being automatically approved. With this release, the race condition was fixed and CSRs of worker nodes are now properly approved.  (OCPBUGS-55315)
* Previously, certain models of SuperMicro machines, such as ars-111gl-nhr, use a different virtual media device string than other SuperMicro machines, which could cause virtual media boot attempts to fail on these servers. With this release, an extra conditional check was added to check for the specific model affected and adjust behavior accordingly, so that SuperMicro models such as ars-111gl-nhr can now boot from virtual media. (OCPBUGS-56639)
* Previously, after deleting a BaremetalHost that has a related DataImage, the DataImage was still present. With this release, the DataImage is deleted if it exists after the BaremetalHost has been deleted. (OCPBUGS-51294)

## Cloud Compute

* When upgrading GCP clusters that use a boot disk that is not compatible with UEFI, you cannot enable Shielded VM support.
Previously, this prevented the creation of new compute machines.
With this release, disks with known UEFI incompatibility have Shielded VM support disabled.
This primarily affects customers upgrading from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.12 to 4.13 using the GCP marketplace images.
(OCPBUGS-17079)
* Previously, VMs in a cluster that ran on Azure failed because the attached network interface controller (NIC) was in a ProvisioningFailed state.
With this release, the Machine API controller checks the provisioning status of a NIC and refreshes the VMs on a regular basis to prevent this issue.
(OCPBUGS-31515)
* Previously, in larger clusters that had other subsystems using certificate signing requests (CSRs), the CSR approver counted unrelated, unapproved CSRs towards its total and prevented further approvals.
With this release, the CSR approver uses a signerName property as a filter and only includes CSRs that it can approve.
As a result, the CSR approver only prevents new approvals when there are a large number of unapproved CSRs for the relevant signerName values.
(OCPBUGS-36404)
* Previously, the Machine API controller read only the zone number to populate machine zone information.
For machines in Azure regions that only support availability sets, the set number represents the zone, so the Machine API controller did not populate their zone information.
With this release, the Machine API controller references the Azure fault domain property.
This property works for availability sets and availability zones, so the controller correctly reads the fault domain in each case and machines always report a zone.
(OCPBUGS-38570)
* Previously, increased granularity in GCP zone API error messages caused the machine controller to mistakenly mark some machines with invalid configurations as valid with a temporary cloud error.
This behavior prevented invalid machines from transitioning to a failed state.
With this release, the machine controller handles the more granular error messages correctly so that machines with an invalid zone or project ID correctly move to a failed state.
(OCPBUGS-43531)
* Previously, some permissions required for linked actions were missing.
Linked actions create the subresources necessary for other Azure resources that the cloud controller manager and Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform require.
With this release, the cloud controller manager for Azure has the following permissions for linked actions:
* Microsoft.Network/applicationGateways/backendAddressPools/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/applicationSecurityGroups/joinIpConfiguration/action
* Microsoft.Network/applicationSecurityGroups/joinNetworkSecurityRule/action
* Microsoft.Network/ddosProtectionPlans/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/gatewayLoadBalancerAliases/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/backendAddressPools/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/frontendIPConfigurations/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/inboundNatRules/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/publicIPPrefixes/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/join/action

(OCPBUGS-44126)
* Previously, some permissions required for linked actions were missing.
Linked actions create the subresources necessary for other Azure resources that the Machine API and Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform require.
With this release, the Machine API provider for Azure has the following permissions for linked actions:
* Microsoft.Compute/disks/beginGetAccess/action
* Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/deploy/action
* Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/assign/action
* Microsoft.Network/applicationGateways/backendAddressPools/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/applicationSecurityGroups/joinIpConfiguration/action
* Microsoft.Network/applicationSecurityGroups/joinNetworkSecurityRule/action
* Microsoft.Network/ddosProtectionPlans/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/gatewayLoadBalancerAliases/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/backendAddressPools/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/frontendIPConfigurations/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/inboundNatPools/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/inboundNatRules/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/publicIPPrefixes/join/action
* Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/join/action

(OCPBUGS-44130)
* Previously, installing an AWS cluster failed in certain environments on existing subnets when the publicIp parameter in the compute machine set CR was set to false.
With this release, a fix ensures that a configuration value set for publicIp no longer causes issues when the installation program provisions machines for your AWS cluster in certain environments.
(OCPBUGS-44373)
* Previously, GCP clusters that used non-UEFI disks failed to load.
This release adds a check to ensure that disks are UEFI-compatible before enabling features that require UEFI, such as secure boot.
This change adds compute.images.get and compute.images.getFromFamily permissions requirements.
As a result, you can use non-UEFI disks if you do not need these features.
(OCPBUGS-44671)
* Previously, when the AWS DHCPOptionSet parameter was configured to use a custom domain name that contains a trailing period (.), Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation failed.
With this release, the logic that extracts the hostname of EC2 instances and turns them into kubelet node names trims trailing periods so that the resulting Kubernetes object name is valid.
Trailing periods in this parameter no longer cause installation to fail. (OCPBUGS-45306)
* Previously, the number of Azure availability set fault domains used a fixed value of 2.
This setting works in most Azure regions because fault domain counts are typically at least 2.
However, this setting failed in the centraluseuap and eastusstg regions.
With this release, the number of availability set fault domains in a region is set dynamically.
(OCPBUGS-45663)
* Previously, the Azure cloud controller manager panicked when there was a temporary API server disconnection.
With this release, the Azure cloud controller manager correctly recovers from temporary disconnection.
(OCPBUGS-45859)
* Previously, some services became stuck in a pending state due to incorrect or missing annotations.
With this release, validation added to the Azure service.beta.kubernetes.io/azure-load-balancer-tcp-idle-timeout and GCP cloud.google.com/network-tier annotations resolves the issue.
(OCPBUGS-48481)
* Previously, the method used to fetch the provider ID from AWS could fail to provide this value to the kubelet when needed.
As a result, sometimes machines could get stuck in different states and fail to complete initialization.
With this release, the provider ID is consistently set when the kubelet starts up.
(OCPBUGS-50905)
* Previously, an incorrect endpoint in the Azure cloud controller manager caused installations on Microsoft Azure Government Cloud to fail.
The issue is resolved in this release.
(OCPBUGS-50969)
* Previously, the Machine API sometimes detected an unhealthy control plane node during cluster creation on IBM Cloud and attempted to replace the node.
This effectively destroyed the cluster.
With this release, the Machine API only attempts to replace unhealthy compute nodes during cluster creation and does not attempt to replace unhealthy control plane nodes.
(OCPBUGS-51864)
* Previously, Azure spot machines that were evicted before their node became ready could get stuck in the provisioned state.
With this release, Azure spot instances now use a delete-eviction policy.
This policy ensures that the machines correctly move to the failed state upon preemption.
(OCPBUGS-54617)
* Previously, a bug fix altered the availability set configuration by changing the fault domain count to use the maximum available value instead of a fixed value of 2.
This inadvertently caused scaling issues for compute machine sets created before the bug fix, as the controller attempted to change immutable availability sets.
With this release, availability sets are no longer modified after creation, allowing affected compute machine sets to scale properly.
(OCPBUGS-56653)
* Previously, the openshift-cnv namespace components did not feature the openshift.io/required-scc annotation. Workloads were not requesting their required security content constraints (SCCs). With this release, the openshift.io/required-scc annotation is added to the openshift-cnv namespace components so that workloads can request the required SCCs. (OCPBUGS-49657)

## Cloud Credential Operator

* Previously, the aws-sdk-go-v2 software development kit (SDK) failed to authenticate an AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity API operation on an Amazon Web Services (AWS) Security Token Service (STS) cluster. With this release, pod-identity-webhook now includes a default region so that this issue no longer persists. (OCPBUGS-41727)

## Cluster Autoscaler

* Previously, when a Machine Set was scaled down and had reached its minimum size, the Cluster Autoscaler could leave the last remaining node with a no schedule taint that prevented use of a node. This issues was caused by a counting error in the Cluster Autoscaler. With this release, the counting error has been fixed so that the Cluster Autoscaler works as expected when a Machine Set is scaled down and has reached its minimum size. (OCPBUGS-54231)
* Previously, some cluster autoscaler metrics were not initialized, and therefore were not available. With this release, these metrics are initialized and available. (OCPBUGS-25852)
* Previously the Cluster Autoscaler could stop scaling because of a failed machine in a machine set. This condition occurred because of inaccuracies in the way the Cluster Autoscaler counts machines in various non-running phases. With this release, the inaccuracies have been fixed, so that the Cluster Autoscaler accurately counts machines. (OCPBUGS-11115)

## Cluster Resource Override Admission Operator

* Previously, the Cluster Resource Admission Override Operator failed to delete old secrets during upgrading from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16 to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.17. This situation caused the Cluster Resource Override Admission Operator webhook to stop working and prevented pods from being created in namespaces that had the Cluster Resource Override Admission Operator enabled. With this release, old secrets are deleted, error handling by the Cluster Resource Override Admission Operator is improved, and the issue with creating pods in namespaces is resolved. (OCPBUGS-54886)
* Previously, if you deleted the clusterresourceoverride-operator service or uninstalled the Cluster Resource Admission Override Operator, the v1.admission.autoscaling.openshift.io API service was unreachable and prevented needed cluster functions, such as installing other Operators on the cluster. With this release, a fix ensures that if the Cluster Resource Admission Override Operator is uninstalled, the v1.admission.autoscaling.openshift.io API service is also deleted so that the cluster functions are not impacted. (OCPBUGS-48115)
* Previously, if you specified a forceSelinuxRelabel parameter in a ClusterResourceOverride CR and then changed the parameter to another value, the changed value would not be reflected in the clusterresourceoverride-configuration Config Map. This Config Map is required for applying the selinux relabelling workaround feature to your cluster. With this release, this issue is fixed so that when the forceSelinuxRelabel parameter is changed, the clusterresourceoverride-configuration Config Map received the update. (OCPBUGS-44649)

## Cluster Version Operator

* Previously, the status of the ClusterVersion condition could  changed from ImplicitlyEnabled to ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities. With this release, the ClusterVersion condition type has been fixed and changed from ImplicitlyEnabled to ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities. (OCPBUGS-56771)
* Previously, a custom Security Context Constraint (SCC) impacted any pod that was generated by the Cluster Version Operator from receiving a cluster version upgrade. With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform now sets a default SCC to each pod, so that any custom SCC created does not impact a pod. (OCPBUGS-31462)
* Previously, when a Cluster Operator takes a long time to upgrade, Cluster Version Operator does not report anything as it cannot determine if the upgrade is still progressing or already stuck. With this release, a new unknown status is added for the failing condition in status of the Cluster Version reported by Cluster Version Operator to remind the cluster administrators to check the cluster and avoid waiting on a blocked Cluster Operator upgrade. (OCPBUGS-23514)

## ImageStreams

* Previously, image import blocked registries that would fail if those registries were configured with NeverContactSource, even when mirror registries were set up. With this update, image importing is no longer blocked when a registry has mirrors configured. This ensures that image imports succeed even if the original source was set to NeverContactSource in the ImageDigestMirrorSet or ImageTagMirrorSet resources. (OCPBUGS-44432)

## Installer

* Previously, if you attempted to install an Amazon Web Services (AWS) cluster with minimum privileges and you did not specify an instance type in the install-config.yaml file, installation of the cluster failed. This issue happened because the installation program could not find supported instance types that the cluster could use in supported availability zones. For example, the m6i.xlarge default instance type was unavailable in ap-southeast-4 and eu-south-2 availability zones. With this release, the openshift-install program now requires the ec2:DescribeInstanceTypeOfferings AWS permission to prevent the installation of the cluster from failing in situations where m6i.xlarge or another supported instance type is unavailable in a supported availability zone. (OCPBUGS-46596)
* Previously, the installation program did not prevent users from attempting to install a single-node cluster on bare metal, which resulted in a failed installation. With this update, the installation program prevents single-node cluster installations on unsupported platforms. (OCPBUGS-56811)
* Previously, when you diagnosed issues related to running the openshift-install destroy cluster command for VMware vSphere, the logging information provided insufficient detail. As a consequence, it was unclear why clusters were not removed from virtual machines (VMs). With this release, when you destroy a cluster, enhanced debug logging is provided and the issue is resolved. (OCPBUGS-56372)
* Previously, when installing into an existing virtual private cloud (VPC) on Amazon Web Services (AWS), a potential mismatch could occur in the subnet information in the AWS Availability Zone between the machine set custom resources for control plane nodes and their corresponding AWS EC2 instances. As a consequence, where the control plane nodes were spread across three Availability Zones and one was recreated the discrepancy could result in an unbalanced control plane as two nodes occurred within the same Availability Zone. With this release, it is ensured that the subnet Availability Zone information in the machine set custom resources and in the EC2 instances match and the issue is resolved. (OCPBUGS-55492)
* Previously, when installing a cluster with the OVNKubernetes network plugin, the installation could fail if the plugin is specified as OVNkubernetes with a lowercase "k". With this update, the installation program correctly interprets the plugin name regardless of case. (OCPBUGS-54606)
* When a Proxy is configured, the installation program adds the machineNetwork CIDR to the noProxy field. Previously, if the machineNetwork CIDR had also been configured by the user in the noProxy field, this would result in a duplicate entry, which is not allowed by ignition and could prevent the host from booting properly. With this release, the installation program will not add the machineNetwork CIDR to the noProxy field if it has already been set. (OCPBUGS-53183)
* Previously, API and ingress VIPs were automatically assigned even when a user-managed load balancer was in use. This behavior was unintended. Now, API and ingress VIPs are no longer automatically assigned. If these values are not explicitly set in the install-config.yaml file, the installation fails with an error, prompting the user to provide them. (OCPBUGS-53140)
* Previously, when using the Agent-based Installer, the WWN of Fibre Channel (FC) multipath volumes was not detected during hardware discovery. As a result, when the wwn root device hint was specified, all multipath FC volumes were excluded by it. With this release, the WWN is now collected for multipath FC volumes, so when more than one multipath volume is present, users can select between them by using the wwn root device hint. (OCPBUGS-52994)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on Azure, the installation program did not include support for NVMe or SCSI, which prevented the use of VM instance families that require it. With this update, the installation program can make use of VM instance families that require NVMe or SCSI support. (OCPBUGS-52658)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on GCP with a user-provided encryption key, the installation program could fail to find the key ring. With this update, the installation program finds the user-provided encryption key ring so the installation does not fail. (OCPBUGS-52203)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on GCP, the installation could fail if network instability prevented the fetching of GCP tags during installation. With this update, the installation program has been improved to tolerate network instability during installation. (OCPBUGS-50919)
* Previously, the installer was not checking for ESXi hosts that were powered off within a VMware vSphere cluster, which caused the installation to fail because the OVA could not be uploaded. With this release, the installer now checks the power status of each ESXi host and skips any that are powered off, which resolves the issue and allows the OVA to be imported successfully. (OCPBUGS-50649)
* Previously, when using the Agent-based Installer, erroneous error messages regarding unable to read image were output when building the Agent ISO image in a disconnected environment. With this release, these erroneous messages have been removed and no longer appear. (OCPBUGS-50637)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on Azure, the installation program would crash with a segmentation fault error if it did not have the correct permissions to check IP address availability. With this update, the installation program correctly identifies the missing permission and fails gracefully. (OCPBUGS-50534)
* Previously, when the ClusterNetwork classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) mask value is greater than the hostPrefix value and the networking.ovnKubernetesConfig.ipv4.internalJoinSubnet section is provided in the install-config.yaml file, the installation program failed a validation check and returned a Golang runtime error. With this release, the installation program still fails the validation check and now outputs a descriptive error message that indicates the invalid hostPrefix value. (OCPBUGS-49784)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on IBM Cloud(R), the installation program failed to install on the ca-mon region even though it is available. With this update, the installation program is up to date with the latest available IBM Cloud(R) regions. (OCPBUGS-49623)
* Previously, after installing a cluster on AWS with minimum permissions in an existing VPC with a user-provided public IPv4 pool, the cluster could not be destroyed due to a missing permission. With this update, the installation program propagates the ec2:ReleaseAddress permission so that the cluster can be destroyed. (OCPBUGS-49594)
* Previously, the installer for VMware vSphere did not validate the number of networks provided in the install-config.yaml for failure domains. This caused the installation to proceed with an unsupported configuration if more than the maximum of 10 networks were specified, without providing an error. With this release, the installer now validates the number of configured networks, which resolves the issue by preventing the use of a configuration that exceeds the maximum limit. (OCPBUGS-49351)
* Previously, installing a cluster on AWS with existing subnets (BYO VPC) in Local or Wavelength zones resulted in the edge subnets resource missing the kubernetes.io/cluster/<InfraID>:shared tag. With this release, a fix ensures that all subnets used in the install-config.yaml file have the required tags. (OCPBUGS-48827)
* Previously, an issue prevented configuring multiple subnets in the failure domain of a Nutanix cluster during installation. The issue is resolved in this release. (OCPBUGS-49885)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on AWS, the ap-southeast-5 region was not available in the installation program survey, even though this region was supported by Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. With this update, the ap-southeast-5 region is available. (OCPBUGS-47681)
* Previously, when destroying a cluster installed on GCP, some resources could be left behind because the installation program did not wait to ensure that all destroy operations completed successfully. With this update, the destroy API waits to ensure that all resources are appropriately deleted. (OCPBUGS-47489)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on AWS in the us-east-1 regions, the installation could fail if no zone is specified in the install-config.yaml file because the use1-az3 zone does not support any instance types supported by Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. With this update, the installation program prevents the use of the use1-az3 zone when no zones are specified in the installation configuration file. (OCPBUGS-47477)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on GCP, the installation would fail if you enabled the constraints/compute.vmCanIpForward constraint on your project. With this update, the installation program disables this constraint if it is enabled, allowing the installation to succeed. (OCPBUGS-46571)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on GCP, the installation program would fail to detect if the user provided an encryption key ring that did not exist, causing the installation to fail. With this update, the installation program correctly validates the existence of user provided encryption key rings, preventing failure. (OCPBUGS-46488)
* Previously, when destroying a cluster that was installed on Microsoft Azure, the inbound NAT rules and security groups for the bootstrap node were not deleted. With this update, the correct resource group ensures that all resources are deleted when the cluster is destroyed. (OCPBUGS-45429)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on AWS in the ap-southeast-5 region, the installation could fail due to a malformed load balancer hostname. With this update, the installation program has been improved to form the correct hostname so that installation succeeds. (OCPBUGS-45289)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on GCP, the installation program could fail to locate the service account it created due to a delay in activating the service account on Google's servers. With this update, the installation program waits an appropriate amount of time before attempting to use the created service account. (OCPBUGS-45280)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on AWS, the installation could fail if you specified an edge machine pool but did not specify an instance type. With this update, the installation program requires that an instance type be provided for edge machine pools. (OCPBUGS-45218)
* Previously, when destroying a cluster installed on GCP, PVC disks with the label kubernetes-io-cluster-<cluster-id>: owned were not deleted. With this update, the installation program correctly locates and deletes these resources when the cluster is destroyed. (OCPBUGS-45162)
* Previously, during a disconnected installation, when the imageContentSources parameter was configured for more than one mirror for a source, the command to create the agent ISO image could fail, depending on the sequence of the mirror configuration. With this release, multiple mirrors are handled correctly when the agent ISO is created and the issue is resolved. (OCPBUGS-44938)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on AWS, if the publicIPv4Pool parameter was set but the ec2:AllocateAddress permission was not present, the installation would fail. With this update, the installation program requires that this permission is present. (OCPBUGS-44925)
* Previously, during a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) installation, the installer added the records to a private DNS zone created by the installer instead of adding the records to the clusterâ€™s private DNS zone. As a consequence, the installation failed. With this release, the installer searches for an existing private DNS zone and, if found, pairs that zone with the network that is supplied by the install-config.yaml file and the issue is resolved. (OCPBUGS-44641)
* Previously, you could add white space to Amazon Web Services (AWS) tag names but the installation program did not support them. This situation resulted in the installation program outputting an ERROR failed to fetch Metadata message. With this release, the regular expression for AWS tags now validates any tag name that has white space so that the installation program accepts these tags and no longer outputs an error because of white space. (OCPBUGS-44199)
* Previously, when destroying a cluster that was installing on GCP, forwarding rules, health checks and firewall rules were not deleted, leading to errors. With this update, all resources are deleted when the cluster is destroyed. (OCPBUGS-43779)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on Microsoft Azure, specifying the Standard_M8-4ms instance type resulted in an error due to that instance type specifying its memory in decimal format instead of integer format. With this update, the installation program correctly parses the memory value. (OCPBUGS-42241)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on VMware vSphere, installations could fail if the API and Ingress server virtual IPs were outside of the machine network. With this update, the installation program includes the API and Ingress server virtual IPs in the machine network by default. If you specify the API and Ingress server virtual IPs, ensure that they are in the machine network. (OCPBUGS-36553)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on IBM Power Virtual Server, the installation failed if you selected the Madrid zone due to an image import error. With this update, the installation program has been modified to use the correct storage bucket name and continue the installation successfully. (OCPBUGS-50899)
* Previously, when destroying a cluster installed on IBM Power Virtual Server, some resources including network subnets were not deleted. With this update, all network resources are deleted when the cluster is destroyed. (OCPBUGS-50657)
* Previously, when installing a cluster using the Assisted Installer, the installation could fail due to a timeout when pulling images. With this update, the timeout has been increased so that the installation program completes pulling images. (OCPBUGS-50655)
* Previously, in some slower PrismCentral environments, the installation program would fail with a timeout when make the prism-api call to load the RHCOS image. The timeout value was previously 5 minutes. With this release, the prism-api call timeout value is a configurable parameter in the install-config.yaml file as platform.nutanix.prismAPICallTimeout, with a default value of 10 minutes. (OCPBUGS-48570)
* Previously, an issue prevented configuring multiple subnets in the failure domain of a Nutanix cluster during installation. The issue is resolved in this release. (OCPBUGS-48044)
* Previously, when installing a cluster on IBM Power Virtual Server using installer-provisioned infrastructure, the installation program selected a random machine network instead of using the one provided by the user. With this update, the installation program uses the machine network that the user provides. (OCPBUGS-45286)
* Previously, the temporary directory that was created when the openshift-install agent create pxe-files command was run was not removed after the command completed. With this release, the temporary directory is now removed properly after the command completes. (OCPBUGS-39583)

## Machine Config Operator

* Previously, the ContainerRuntimeConfig incorrectly set the --root path for the runc runtime. This caused containers to run with an incorrect root path and led to issues with the container operations. With this release, the --root path for container runtime is correct and matches the specified runtime, providing consistent operation. (OCPBUGS-47629)
* Previously, users were not warned if their cluster contained Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) worker nodes, which are no longer supported in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 and later. With this release, the Machine Config Operator detects RHEL nodes and notifies users that are not compatible with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. (OCPBUGS-54611)
* Previously, when the Machine Config Operator (MCO) rebooted a node too quickly after staging an update, the update failed. With this release, the MCO waits for the staging operation to finish before rebooting the system, allowing the update to complete. (OCPBUGS-51150)
* Previously, after deleting a MachineOSConfig object, the associated MachineOSBuild object was not deleted as expected. This was because the ownership of the MachineOSBuild object was not set. With this release, all of the objects are created for the build and all associated objects are deleted when the MachineOSConfig object is deleted. (OCPBUGS-44602)

## Management Console

* Previously, the Projects details in the Developer Perspective erroneously did not include breadcrumbs. With this release, the breadcrumbs have been added. (OCPBUGS-52298)
* Previously, when opening the Project drop-down list while the web terminal is open, there were visual artifacts. After this update, the artifact was fixed, so you can use the Project drop-down list when the web terminal is open. (OCPBUGS-45325)
* Previously, a PipelineRuns CR that used a resolver could not be rerun on the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console. If you attempted to rerun the CR, an "Invalid PipelineRun configuration, unable to start Pipeline" was generated. With this release, you can now rerun a PipelineRuns CR that uses resolver without experiencing this issue. (OCPBUGS-44265)
* Previously, when you used the Form View to edit Deployment or DeploymentConfig API objects on the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console, duplicate ImagePullSecrets parameters existed in the YAML configuration for either object. With this release, a fix ensures that duplicate ImagePullSecrets parameters do not get automatically added for either object. (OCPBUGS-41974)
* Previously, a TaskRun for a particular Pipelinerun was fetched based on the PipelineRun name. If any two PipelineRuns had the same name, the TaskRun for both PipelineRuns was fetched and displayed. With this release, the TaskRun for the particular PipelineRun will be fetched based on PipelineRun UID instead of PipelineRun name. (OCPBUGS-36658)
* Previously, the Test Serverless function button did not respond if there were no pods running. With this update, the button is disabled when there are no pods running. (OCPBUGS-32406)
* Previously, the results of a failed TaskRun would not show up in the UI. With this update, the results of a TaskRun are always available, regardless of failure.(OCPBUGS-23924)
* Previously, the console alerted users that compute nodes must be updated within 60 days when performing a control plane only update. With this release, the console no longer displays this invalid alert. (OCPBUGS-56077)
* Previously, the Critical Alerts section of the Notification Drawer could not be collapsed. With this release, the section can be collapsed. (OCPBUGS-55702)
* Previously, when viewing the list of installed Operators, an Operator displayed twice in the list if the currently selected project matched an Operator's default namespace while copied CSVs were disabled in Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM). With this release, the Operator displays only once in such cases. (OCPBUGS-54601)
* Previously, the link to OperatorHub on the Installed Operators page would trigger a hard reload. With this release, this link no longer triggers a hard reload. (OCPBUGS-54536)
* Previously, selecting All Projects from the project picker while on the Create VolumeSnapshot page resulted in a page not found error. With this release, the VolumeSnapshot list page is correctly displayed. (OCPBUGS-53227)
* Previously, there was incorrect logic for calculating the pod container count causing it to be inaccurate. With this release, the Ready and Started status in count logic was added so the correct pod container count is displayed, which is consist with oc CLI. (OCPBUGS-53118)
* Previously, the Select menu above the Node Logs section did not close when opened, unless the Select menu's toggle was clicked again or one of the Select's menu items was clicked. With this release, the Select menu closes after clicking outside of the menu or by pressing the appropriate key on the keyboard. (OCPBUGS-52316)
* Previously, the shared timestamp component referenced an undefined property when calculating relative times. As a result, most times displayed in the console were not correctly displaying relative strings such as Just now or Less than a minute ago. With this release, the issue is fixed and relative time strings are correctly rendered in the console. (OCPBUGS-51202)
* Previously, the Observe menu only displayed based on the current user and console configuration for monitoring. This caused other items added by observability plugins to be hidden. With this release, the Observe menu also displays items from different observability plugins. (OCPBUGS-50693)
* Previously, when logging in to the console for the first time, automatic perspective detection caused the console to ignore the specific URL path that the user clicked to get onto the console, and instead load a different page. With this release, the current path is followed. (OCPBUGS-50650)
* Previously, there was an issue when creating new tabs in the horizontal navigation present in the web console from plugins. With this release, you can use plugins to create tabs on the web console horizontal navigation. (OCPBUGS-49996)
* Previously, the Cluster Settings page would not properly render during a cluster update if the ClusterVersion did not receive a Completed update. With this release, the Cluster Setting page properly renders even if the ClusterVersion has not received a Completed update. (OCPBUGS-49839)
* Previously, the links on the CLI downloads page were not sorted by operating system. With this release, the links are sorted by their operating system in alphabetical order. (OCPBUGS-48413)
* Previously, multiple external link icons could appear in the primary Action button of the OperatorHub modal. With this release, only a single external link icon is displayed. (OCPBUGS-46555)
* Previously, clicking the Don't show again link in the Red Hat OpenShift Lightspeed modal did not correctly navigate to the general User Preference tab when one of the other User Preference tabs was displayed. After this update, clicking the Don't show again link correctly navigates to the general User Preference tab. (OCPBUGS-46511)
* Previously, a console plugin could be enabled multiple times in the Console plugin enablement modal, resulting in multiple entries for the plugin appearing the Console Operator Configuration. With this release, it is no longer possible to enable a plugin if it is already enabled. (OCPBUGS-44595)
* Previously, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console login page always allowed you to click the Login button. You could still click when no username or password was entered, or if the Login button was already clicked. With this release, the Login button is disabled so you are unable to click the Login button without a username or password. (OCPBUGS-43610)
* Previously, PackageManifest by name only was selected on the Operator installation status page. In some cases, this caused the incorrect PackageManifest to be used for displaying the logo and provider since there can be name collisions. With this release, PackageManifests are selected by name and label selector to make sure the correct one is selected for the current installation. As a result, the correct logo and provider are always shown on the operator install status page. (OCPBUGS-21755)

## Monitoring

* Previously, if a scrape failed, Prometheus erroneously considered the samples from the very next scrape as duplicates and dropped them. This issue affected only the scrape immediately following a failure, while subsequent scrapes were processed correctly. With this release, the scrape following a failure is now correctly handled, ensuring that no valid samples are mistakenly dropped. (OCPBUGS-53025)

## Networking

* Previously, when a pod used the CNI plugin for DHCP address assignment, in conjunction with other CNI plugins, the network interface of the pod might have been unexpectedly deleted. As a consequence, when the DHCP lease expired for the pod, the DHCP proxy entered a loop when trying to re-create a new lease, leading to the node becoming unresponsive. With this release, the DHCP lease maintenance terminates if the network interface does not exist. As a result, interface deletions are handled gracefully, ensuring node stability. (OCPBUGS-45272)
* Previously, the Kubernetes NMState Operator Operator did not create the nmstate-console-plugin pod  because of an issue with the pluginPort template. With this release, a fix to the template ensures that the Operator can now successfully create the nmstate-console-plugin pod. (OCPBUGS-54295)
* Previously, the pod controller in the Whereabouts reconciler was not passing the namespace to the leader election function, so the pod controller was not deleting orphaned allocations. This lead to repeated log error messages. With this release, the namespace is passed in and the orphaned allocations are deleted properly. (OCPBUGS-53397)
* Previously, the SriovOperatorConfig Operator removed any parameters that had default values in the SriovOperatorConfig resources. This situation caused certain information to be missing from the output of a resource.  With this release, the Operator uses the PATCH method for API servers to preserve parameters with default values so that no information is missing from the output for a resource. (OCPBUGS-53346)
* Previously, the SriovNetworkNodePolicy object reconciler executed with every node resource update. This resulted in excessive resource consumption by the SR-IOV Operator pod and an overabundance of log entries. This release changes the behavior so that the reconciler only runs when a node label changes, thereby reducing resource consumption and log entry generation. (OCPBUGS-52955)
* Previously, a cluster with the clusterNetwork parameter listing multiple networks of the same IP address family entered a crashloopbackoff state when upgrading to the latest version of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. With this release,  a fix ensures that the cluster with this configuration no longer enters the crashloopbackoff state during a cluster upgrade. (OCPBUGS-49994)
* Previously, the resolv-prepender service triggered earlier than expected. This situation caused the service to fail and resulted in an incorrectly configured setting for the host DNS. With this release, the configuration for the resolv-prepender service is updated so that when the service triggers earlier than expected, it no longer causes incorrect configuration of the host DNS settings. (OCPBUGS-49436)
* Previously, the nmstate-configuration service was only enabled for deployments that had the platform parameter set to baremetal. However, you could also use the Assisted Installer to configure a bare-metal deployment by setting the platform parameter set to  None,  but the NMState br-ex network bridge creation feature did not work with this installation method.  With this release, the nmstate-configuration service is moved to the base directory in the cluster installation path so that any deployments configured with the platform parameter set to  None, do not impact the NMState br-ex network bridge creation feature. (OCPBUGS-48566)
* Previously, for a layer 2 or layer 3 topology network that had the gateway mode set to local, OVN-Kubernetes experienced an issue when it was restarted. The issue caused the Egress IP to be selected as the primary IP address for the network. With this release, a fix ensures that this behavior no longer occurs. (OCPBUGS-46585)
* Previously, the DNS-based egress firewall incorrectly prevented creation of any firewall rule that contained a DNS name in uppercase characters. With this release, a fix to the egress firewall means that creation of a firewall rule that contains a DNS name in uppercase occurs. (OCPBUGS-46564)
* Previously, when a pod was running on a node on which an egress on the IPv6 protocol was assigned, the pod was not able to communicate with the OVN-Kubernetes service in a dual-stack cluster. This resulted in the traffic with the IP address family, that the egressIP was not applicable to, being dropped. With this release, only the source network address translation (SNAT) for the IP address family that the egress IPs applied to is deleted, eliminating the risk of traffic being dropped. (OCPBUGS-46543)
* Previously, when you used static IP addresses in the customized br-ex network bridge configuration of a manifest object, a race condition was added and caused a node reboot operation that further impacted deployment of a cluster. With this release, the nodeip-configuration service now starts after the br-ex network bridge is up, preventing the race condition and node reboot. (OCPBUGS-46072)
* Previously, the HAProxy router incorrectly assumed that only SHA1 leaf certificates were rejected by HAProxy, causing the router to fail by not rejecting SHA1 intermediate certificates. With this update, the router now inspects and rejects all non-self-signed SHA1 certificates, thereby preventing crashes and improving stability for your cluster stability. (OCPBUGS-45290)
* Previously, when a node restarted the openvswitch daemon, the nmstate-handler container could not access the OpenVSwitch (OVS) database and this caused all OVS-related NNCP configurations to fail. With this release, the issue is fixed. The nmstate-handler container can access the OVS database even after restarting the OVS process on the node. The nmstate-handler no longer requires a manual restart. (OCPBUGS-44596)
* Previously, a MultiNetworkPolicy API was not enforced when the protocol parameter was specified, but the port parameter was not, in the cluster configuration. This situation caused all network traffic to reach the cluster. With this release, the MultiNetworkPolicy API policy only allows connections from and to the ports specified with the protocol parameter so that only specific traffic reaches the cluster. (OCPBUGS-44354)
* Previously, HAProxy left idle connections open when it reloaded its configuration until either the next time a client sent a request by using the idle connection or the hard-stop-after period elapsed. This release adds a new IdleConnectionTerminationPolicy API field to control HAProxy behavior for idle connections during reloads. The new default setting is Immediate, which means that HAProxy immediately terminates any idle connections when it reloads its configuration. The previous behavior can be specified by using the Deferred setting for IdleConnectionTerminationPolicy. (OCPBUGS-43745)
* Previously, if an application did not use the Path MTU discovery (PMTUD) mechanism while sending UDP packets larger than the network MTU, an issue with the OVN package caused the a packet to be dropped while fragmenting the packet. With this release, the OVN package has been fixed so that large UDP packets are properly fragmented and sent over the network. (OCPBUGS-43649)
* Previously, a pod with a secondary interface in an OVN-Kubernetes Localnet network that was plugged into a br-ex interface bridge was out of reach by other pods on the same node, but used the default network for communication. The communication between pods on different nodes was not impacted. With this release, the communication between a Localnet pod and a default network pod running on the same node is possible, however the IP addresses that are used in the Localnet network must be within the same subnet as the host network. (OCPBUGS-43004)
* Previously, when specific network changes were made to a running cluster, a NetworkManager connection profile was permanently created by the ovs-configuration service and the profile was incorrectly saved to storage. This profile file would persist through a reboot operation and caused the ovs-configuration service to fail. With this release, the ovs-configuration cleanup process is updated to remove any unnecessary files, preventing such files from causing issues after a reboot operation. (OCPBUGS-41489)
* Previously, the parseIPList function failed to handle IP address lists that contained both valid and invalid IP addresses or CIDR ranges. This situation caused the function to return an empty string when it encountered an invalid entry and skip processing valid entries. With this release, the haproxy.router.openshift.io/ip_allowlist route annotation skips any invalid IP addresses or CIDR ranges so that the parseIPList function can process all listed entries. (OCPBUGS-39403)
* Previously, the HAProxy router lacked out-of-bounds validation for the router.openshift.io/haproxy.health.check.interval annotation. If you set a value that exceeded the maximum value that the HAProxy router could handle, the router-default pod could not reach the Ready state. With this release, the router now validates the value for the annotation and excludes values that are out of bounds. The router now functions as expected. (OCPBUGS-38078)
* Previously, in certain situations the gateway IP address for a node changed and caused the OVN cluster router, which manages the static route to the cluster subnet, to add a new static route with the new gateway IP address, without deleting the original one. As a result, a stale route still pointed to the switch subnet and this caused intermittent drops during egress traffic transfer. With this release, a patch applied to the OVN cluster router ensures that if the gateway IP address changes, the OVN cluster router updates the existing static route with the new gateway IP address. A stale route no longer points to the OVN cluster router so that egress traffic flow does not drop. (OCPBUGS-32754)
* Previously, there was no event logged when an error occurred from a failed conversion from ingress to route. With this update, an error for a failed conversion is logged. (OCPBUGS-29354)
* Previously, the PowerVS installer used a hard-coded list of supported machine types. However, this list was not always updated as new types were added. With this release, datacenter is queried to get the current list of supported types. (OCPBUGS-49940)
* Previously, when a RootDiskHint was defined and the installation failed with the error Requested installation disk is not part of the host's valid disks, it was difficult to determine the valid disk names that could be used as the hint. With this release, logging was added for the list of acceptable disks so that a user can quickly determine what the root disk hint should be. (OCPBUGS-43578)
* Previously, the oc adm node-image monitor command returned an EOF error when there was an API server interruption or temporary connection issue. This caused the command to terminate. With this release, the command now detects API server interruptions and temporary connection issues and reconnects to the API server without terminating the command. (OCPBUGS-38975)
* Previously, when you created a virtual machine (VM) and no IP addresses existed in the IP pool, the VM did not start. An error message was generated in the virt-launcher-<vm_name> pod, but the message was unclear as to the source of the issue. With this release, for this situation where no IP addresses exist in the IP pool, the virt-launcher-<vm-name> pod includes a clear error message that is similar to the following example:

```terminal
Warning ErrorAllocatingPod 4s (x7 over 79s)  ovnk-controlplane  failed to update pod localnet-ipam/virt-launcher-vmb-localnet-ipam-hlnmf: failed to assign pod addresses for localnet-ipam/ipam-localnet-nad/localnet-ipam/virt-launcher-vmb-localnet-ipam-hlnmf: failed to allocate new IPs for tenantblue-network: subnet address pool exhausted
```


(OCPBUGS-54245)

## Node

* Previously, if your cluster used Zscaler and scanned all transfers, it could experience a timeout when pulling images. This problem was due to a hard-coded timeout value for image pulls. The pull progress timeout of CRI-O is now increased to 30 seconds. As a result, previously affected clusters should not experience timeouts. (OCPBUGS-54662)
* Previously, containers that used the container_logreader_t SELinux domain to watch container logs on the host at the /var/log location could not access the logs. This behavior occurred because the logs in the var/log/containers location were symbolic links. With this fix, containers can watch logs as expected.  (OCPBUGS-48555)
* Previously, an end-of-file error occurred in the json.NewDecoder file when the file was in a loop operation. This error caused inconsistent application updates to namespaced policies that existed in multiple namespaces. This issue could potential cause security vulnerabilities for the cluster. With this release, a new policy buffer is added to the json.NewDecoder file when it enters each loop operation, and a test case is added for multiple namespaces. As a result, the policy buffer provides a robust decoding process for JSON policy files so that namespace policies receive updates without any issues. (OCPBUGS-48195)
* Previously, there was an issue in the image reference digest calculation that led to failed container creation based on the schemaVersion 1 image. This issue prevented new deployment creations. With this release, the image digest calculation has been fixed and new operators can be installed. (OCPBUGS-42844)
* Previously, for a Technology Preview-enabled cluster with Sigstore verification for payload images in the policy.json file, the Podman version in the base image did not support Sigstore configuration. This lack of support caused the new node to be unavailable. With this release, the issue is fixed and the node is available. (OCPBUGS-38809)
* Previously, CPUs for the last guaranteed pod admitted to a node remained allocated after the pod was deleted. This behavior caused scheduling domain inconsistencies. With this release, CPUs that are allocated to guaranteed pods return to the pool of available CPU resources as expected, ensuring correct CPU scheduling for subsequent pods. (OCPBUGS-17792)

## Node Tuning Operator (NTO)

* Previously, when applying a performance profile to a node, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform selected the appropriate profile based on the vendor identifier of the CPU unit on the node. Because of this, if a CPU uses a different vendor identifier that is not recognized, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform failed to include the proper profile. For example the identifier might include APM, rather than ARM. With this fix, for CPUs that use the ARM architecture, the Operator now selects a profile based only on the architecture, and not the vendor identifier. As a result, the correct profile is applied. (OCPBUGS-52352)

## Observability

* Previously, the Silence details page had an incorrect link URL that was missing the namespace parameter, which caused users to be unable to silence specific alerts in the dev console for certain versions. This resulted in poor alert management. With this release, the undefined link in SilencedAlertsList has been fixed using the active namespace. As a result, the 'No Alert found' error is now resolved, and the Alert details page in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Monitoring is navigated to correctly. (OCPBUGS-48142)
* Previously, console updates deprecated PatternFly 4, rendering an incorrect layout of the monitoring plug-in table rendered. With this release, the tables and styles are upgraded to PatternFly 5 and are rendered correctly. (OCPBUGS-47535)
* Previously, a namespace was passed to a full cluster query on the alerts graph, and this caused the tenancy API path to be used. The API lacked permissions to retrieve data so no data was shown on the alerts graph. With this release, the namespace is no longer passed to a full cluster query for an alert graph. A non-tenancy API path is now used because this API has the correct permissions to retrieve data. Data is not available on an alert graph. (OCPBUGS-45896)
* Previously, a Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (RHACM) Alerting UI refactor update caused an isEmpty check to go missing on the Observe > Metrics menu. The missing check inverted the behavior of the Show all Series and Hide all Series states. This release readds isEmpty check so that Show all Series is now visible when series are hidden and Hide all Series is now visible when the series are shown. (OCPBUGS-45816)
* Previously, on the Observe -> Alerting -> Silences tab, the DateTime component changed the ordering of an event and its value. Because of this issue, you could not edit the until parameter for a silent alert in the web console. With this release, a fix means to the DateTime component means that you can now edit the until parameter for a silent alert. (OCPBUGS-45801)
* Previously, bounds were based on the first bar in a bar chart. If a bar was larger in size than the first bar, the bar would extend beyond the bar chart boundary. With this release, the bound for a bar chart is based on the largest bar, so no bars extend outside the boundary of a bar chart. (OCPBUGS-45174)

## oc-mirror

* Previously, oc-mirror plugin v2 did not display any progress output during the local cache population phase. For mirror configurations involving a large number of images, this could make the process appear unresponsive or stuck.
With this update, a progress bar has been added to provide the cache population status, enabling the user to see the current progress of the cache population. (OCPBUGS-56563)
* Previously, when mirroring Operators using oc-mirror plugin v2, some community Operators with long lists of skips and replaces entries in their channel graphs caused the mirroring process to run out of memory and fail. With this update, oc-mirror plugin v2 improves the filtering logic by avoiding repeated evaluation of entries referenced in multiple skips and replaces stanzas, resulting in better memory handling during Operator mirroring. (OCPBUGS-52471)
* Previously, when re-running oc-mirror plugin v2 with the same working directory, existing tar archive files from previous runs were not removed. This resulted in a mix of outdated and new archives, which could cause mirroring failures when pushing to the target registry. With this update, oc-mirror plugin v2 automatically deletes old tar archive files at the beginning of each run, ensuring that the working directory only contains archives from the current execution (OCPBUGS-56433)
* Previously, oc-mirror plugin v2 would terminate with an error if the source registry responded with any of the following HTTP status codes during image copying: 502, 503, 504. With this update, oc-mirror plugin v2 automatically retries the copy operation when encountering these temporary server errors. (OCPBUGS-56185)
* Previously, when mirroring a Helm chart that included container images with both a tag and digest in the reference, oc-mirror plugin v2 failed with the following error:

```text
Docker references with both a tag and digest are currently not supported.
```


With this update, oc-mirror plugin v2 supports Helm charts that reference images using both tag and digest. The tool mirrors the image using the digest as the source and applies the tag at the destination. (OCPBUGS-54891)
* Previously, during image cleanup, oc-mirror plugin v2 would stop the deletion process if any error occurred while removing an image. With this release, oc-mirror plugin v2 continues attempting to delete remaining images even after encountering errors. After the process completes, it displays a list of any failed deletions. (OCPBUGS-54653)
* Previously, it was possible to mirror an empty catalog during the mirror-to-disk (m2d) phase if an invalid Operator was specified in the ImageSetConfiguration file. This led to a failure during the subsequent disk-to-mirror (d2m) phase. With this release, oc-mirror plugin v2 prevents mirroring empty catalogs by validating operator references in the configuration, ensuring a more reliable mirroring process. (OCPBUGS-52588)
* Previously, when using oc-mirror plugin v2 with the --dry-run flag, the cluster-resources folder inside the working directory was cleared. As a result, previously generated files such as idms-oc-mirror.yaml and itms-oc-mirror.yaml were deleted. With this release, the cluster-resources folder is no longer cleared during dry-run operations, preserving any previously generated configuration files. (OCPBUGS-50963)
* Previously, the oc-mirror plugin v2 returned an exit status of 0 (success) even when mirroring errors occurred. As a result, oc-mirror plugin v2 run failures in automated workflows could go undetected. With this release, oc-mirror plugin v2 has been updated to return a non -0 exit status when mirror failures occur. Despite this fix, users should not rely solely on the exit status in automated workflows. Users are advised to manually check the mirroring_errors_XXX_XXX.txt file generated by oc-mirror plugin v2 to identify any potential issues. (OCPBUGS-49880)
* Previously, when mirroring using an internal oc-mirror reserved keywordâ€”such as release-imagesâ€”in the destination or --from path flags, the operation could fail or behave unexpectedly. With this release, oc-mirror plugin v2 correctly handles reserved keywords used in destination or source paths. (OCPBUGS-42862)

## OpenShift CLI (oc)

* Previously, if you tried to add a node to a disconnected environment using the oc adm node-image command, private registry images were inaccessible to the command, causing node addition failure. This error only occurred if the cluster was initially installed with an installer binary downloaded from (mirror.openshift.com). With this release, a fix has been implemented that enables successful image pull and node creation in disconnected environments. (OCPBUGS-53106)
* For clusters that were installed with the Agent-based Installer for versions 4.15.0 to 4.15.26, root certificates that were built in from CoreOS were added to the user-ca-bundle, even though they were not explicitly specified by the user. In previous releases, when adding a node to one of these clusters using the oc adm node-image create command, the additionalTrustBundle obtained from the cluster's user-ca-bundle was too large to process, resulting in a failure to add the node. With this release, the built-in certificates are filtered out when generating the additionalTrustBundle, so that only explicitly user-configured certificates are included, and nodes can be added successfully. (OCPBUGS-43990)
* Previously, a bug on oc adm inspect --all-namespaces command construction meant that must-gather was not correctly gathering information about leases, csistoragecapacities, and the assisted-installer namespace. With this release, the issue is fixed and must-gather will gather the information correctly. (OCPBUGS-44857)
* Previously, the oc adm node-image create --pxe generated command did not create only the Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) artifacts. Instead, the command created the PXE artifacts with other artifacts from a node-joiner pod and stored them all in the wrong subdirectory. Additionally, the PXE artifacts were incorrectly prefixed with agent instead of node. With this release, generated PXE artifacts are stored in the correct directory and receive the correct prefix. (OCPBUGS-45311)

## Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)

* Previously, if an Operator did not have the required olm.managed=true label, the Operator might fail and enter a CrashLoopBackOff state. When this happened, the logs did not report the status as an error. As a result, the failure was difficult to diagnose. With this update, this type of failure is reported as an error. (OCPBUGS-56034)
* Previously, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) did not search the /etc/docker/certs.d directory for certificates required to mount images. As a result, Operator Controller and catalogd failed to start because they did not have access to the certificates hosted in this directory. With this update, the issue is resolved. (OCPBUGS-54175)
* Before this release, cluster extension updates sometimes failed with the following error from the CRDUpgradeCheck resource: unknown change, refusing to determine that change is safe. This error occurred due to the way that OLM v1 calculated the difference between version schemas. This update fixes the issue. (OCPBUGS-53019)
* Previously, Operator Controller sometimes failed to mount CA certificates properly. As a result, the Operator Controller failed connect to catalogd due to a TLS certificate validation error. This update fixes the issue. (OCPBUGS-49860)
* Previously, OLM v1 did not wait for certificates to reach a ready state before mounting Operator Controller and catalogd pods. These updates fix the issue. OCPBUGS-48830 and (OCPBUGS-49418)
* Previously, OLM v1 did not apply all of the metadata provided by cluster extension authors in Operator bundles. As a result, OLM v1 did not apply properties, such as update constraints, that were specified in the metadata/properties.yaml file. This update fixes the issue. (OCPBUGS-44808)

## Operator Controller Manager

* Previously, the HTTP_PROXY, http_proxy, HTTPS_PROXY, https_proxy, NO_PROXY, and no_proxy variables were set on build containers regardless of default proxy settings. With this release, the variables are only added if they are defined in defaults and are not null. (OCPBUGS-55642)
* Previously, an image pull secret generated for the internal Image Registry would not be regenerated until after the embedded credentials had expired This resulted in a small period of time in which the image pull secrets were invalid. With this release, the image pull secrets are refreshed before the embedded credentials have expired. (OCPBUGS-50507)
* Previously, OLM v1 did not search the /etc/docker/ directory for the certificates required to mount images. As a result, OLM v1 failed to mount custom certificates. This update fixes the issue. (OCPBUGS-48795)
* Previously, OLM v1 would send an error message during temporary outages that occur during routine cluster maintenance, such as leader election. This update fixes the issue. (OCPBUGS-48765)
* Previously, Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) Classic incorrectly reported failures to Subscription resources during concurrent attempts to reconcile Operators in the same namespace. When this occurred, Operators failed to install. This update fixes the issue. (OCPBUGS-48486)
* Previously, OLM (Classic) took a snapshot of the catalog source for every installed Operator when it reconciled a subscription. This behavior resulted in high CPU usage. With this update, OLM (Classic) caches catalog sources and limits calls to the gRPC Remote Procedure Calls (gRPC) server to resolve the issue. (OCPBUGS-48468)

## Performance Addon Operator

* Previously, if you specified a long string of isolated CPUs in a performance profile, such as 0,1,2,&#8230;&#8203;,512, the tuned, Machine Config Operator and rpm-ostree components failed to process the string as expected. As a consequence, after you applied the performance profile, the expected kernel arguments were missing. The system failed silently with no reported errors. With this release, the string for isolated CPUs in a performance profile is converted to sequential ranges, such as 0-512. As a result, the kernel arguments are applied as expected in most scenarios. (OCPBUGS-45264)

[NOTE]
----
The issue might still occur with some combinations of input for isolated CPUs in a performance profile, such as a long list of odd numbers 1,3,5,&#8230;&#8203;,511.
----
* Previously, the Performance Profile Creator (PPC) failed to build a performance profile for compute nodes that had different core ID numbering (core per socket) for their logical processors and the nodes existed under the same node pool. For example, the PPC failed in a situation for two compute nodes that have logical processors 2 and 18, where one node groups them as core ID 2 and the other node groups them as core ID 9.

With this release, PPC no longer fails to create the performance profile because PPC can now build a performance profile for a cluster that has compute nodes that each have different core ID numbering for their logical processors. The PPC now outputs a warning message that indicates to use the generated performance profile with caution, because different core ID numbering might impact system optimization and isolated management of tasks. (OCPBUGS-44372)

## Samples Operator

* Previously, the Samples Operator updated the lastTransitionTime spec in the Progressing condition even when the condition did not change. This made the Operator show as less stable than it was. With this release, the lastTransitionTime spec updates only when the Progressing condition changes. (OCPBUGS-54591)
* Previously, unsorted image stream names in the Progressing condition caused unnecessary updates. This caused excessive user updates and reduced system performance. With this release, the activeImageStreams function sorts falling image imports. This action improves Cluster Samples Operator efficiency, reduces unnecessary updates, and enhances overall performance. (OCPBUGS-54590)
* Previously, the Samples Operator established a watch for all cluster Operators, which caused the sync loop of the Samples Operator to run when any Operator changed. With this release, the Samples Operator watches only the Operators that it needs to monitor. (OCPBUGS-54589)

## Storage

* Previously, using the oc adm top pvc command would not show usage statistics for persistent volume claims (PVCs) for clusters with restricted network configurations, such as clusters with a proxy or clusters in a disconnected environment. With this release, usage statistics can be acquired for clusters in these environments. (OCPBUGS-54168)
* Previously, the VMware vSphere CSI driver Operator entered panic mode if the vCenter address was incorrect. With this release, the issue has been resolved. (OCPBUGS-43273)
* Previously, a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Persistent Disk cluster with C3-standard-2, C3-standard-4, N4-standard-2, and N4-standard-4 nodes could erroneously exceed the maximum attachable disk number, which should be 16, which could prevent you from successfully creating or attaching volumes to your pods. With this release, the maximum is not exceeded, and thus does not interfere with successfully creating or attaching volumes to your pods.  (OCPBUGS-39258)
* Previously, when persistent volumes (PVs) are deleted, the Local Storage Operator (LSO) did not reliably recreate the symlinks. With this release, when creating PVs, previously specified symlinks are picked before finding new symlinks.  (OCPBUGS-31059)
* Previously, when the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) did not provide credentials for Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver Operators, the CSI driver Operators remain in Progressing=true indefinitely, with a message indicating the operator is waiting for deployment/unavailable. With this release, when progressing state lasts 15 minutes or longer, the Operator changes to Degraded=True. (OCPBUGS-24588)
* Previously, compute nodes with names that are 53 characters long and when using hostpath Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver cause volume provisioning to fail when using --enable-node-deployment flag on external-provisioner. With this release, this issue is resolved and there is no restriction on compute node name lengths.  (OCPBUGS-49805)
* Previously, on Azure Red Hat OpenShift when using hosted control planes to create hosted clusters, the Azure Disk Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver would not provision volumes successfully. With this release, this issue has been resolved, and the Azure Disk CSI driver can provision volumes successfully. (OCPBUGS-46575)
* Previously, Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) and Fibre Channel devices that were attached to a multipath device did not resolve correctly when these devices were partitioned. With this relase, a fix ensures that partitioned multipath storage devices can now correctly resolve. (OCPBUGS-46038)
* Previously, when creating a hosted cluster with specified labels, the AWS EBS driver, Driver Operator, snapshot controller, and snapshot webhook pods do not get theses specified labels propagated to them. With this release, the specified labels are propagated. (OCPBUGS-45073)
* Previously, the Manila Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver had services running on unintended hosts. This occurred because the Manila CSI driver uses a single binary for both the controller and node (worker) services.  With this release, the CSI driver controller pods run only controller services, and CSI driver node pods run only node services. (OCPBUGS-54447)
* Previously, the Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator was issuing warnings in the log about missing items that would become fatal in the future. With this release, the warnings are no longer issued. (OCPBUGS-44374)
* Previously, the VMWare vSphere CSI driver Operator would panic if the vCenter address was incorrect. With this release, the issue has been resolved. (OCPBUGS-43273)

## Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)

* Previously, the GRUB bootloader was not automatically updated on RHCOS nodes. As a result, when nodes were created on RHEL 8 and were subsequently updated to RHEL, GRUB could not load the kernel as it uses a format that is not supported by older GRUB versions. With this release, a GRUB bootloader update is forced on nodes during updates to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 so that the issue does not occur on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. (OCPBUGS-55144)

# Technology Preview features status

Some features in this release are currently in Technology Preview. These experimental features are not intended for production use. Note the following scope of support on the Red&#160;Hat Customer Portal for these features:

Technology Preview Features Support Scope

In the following tables, features are marked with the following statuses:

* Not Available
* Technology Preview
* General Availability
* Deprecated
* Removed

## Authentication and authorization Technology Preview features



## Edge computing Technology Preview features



## Extensions Technology Preview features



## Installation Technology Preview features



## Machine Config Operator Technology Preview features



## Machine management Technology Preview features



## Monitoring Technology Preview features



## Multi-Architecture Technology Preview features



## Networking Technology Preview features



## Node Technology Preview features



## OpenShift CLI (oc) Technology Preview features



## Operator lifecycle and development Technology Preview features



## Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) Technology Preview features



## Scalability and performance Technology Preview features



## Storage Technology Preview features



## Web console Technology Preview features



# Known issues

* In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, clusters using IPsec for network encryption might experience intermittent loss of pod-to-pod connectivity. This prevents some pods on certain nodes from reaching services on other nodes, resulting in connection timeouts. Internal testing could not reproduce this issue on clusters with 120 nodes or less. There is no workaround for this issue. (OCPBUGS-55453)
* Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters that are installed on AWS in the Mexico Central region, mx-central-1, cannot be destroyed. (OCPBUGS-56020)
* When installing a cluster on Azure, if you set any of the compute.platform.azure.identity.type, controlplane.platform.azure.identity.type, or platform.azure.defaultMachinePlatform.identity.type field values to None, your cluster is unable to pull images from the Azure Container Registry. You can avoid this issue by either providing a user-assigned identity, or by leaving the identity field blank. In both cases, the installation program generates a user-assigned identity. (OCPBUGS-56008)
* Previously, the kubelet would not account for probes that ran in the syncPod method, which periodically checks the state of a pod and does a readiness probe outside of the normal probe period. With this release, a bug is fixed for when the kubelet incorrectly calculates readinessProbe periods. However, pod authors might see that the readiness latency of pods configured with readiness probes might increase. This behavior is more accurate to the configured probe. For more information, see (OCPBUGS-50522)
* There is a known issue when the grandmaster clock (T-GM) transitions to the Locked state too soon. This happens before the Digital Phase-Locked Loop (DPLL) completes its transition to the Locked-HO-Acquired state, and after the Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) time source is restored. (OCPBUGS-49826)
* When installing a cluster on AWS, if you do not configure AWS credentials before running any openshift-install create command, the installation program fails. (OCPBUGS-56658)
* The must-gather tool does not collect IPsec information for a cluster that was upgraded from Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14. This issue occurs because the ipsecConfig configuration in the networks.operator.openshift.io cluster CR has an empty construct, {}. The empty construct is passed to the upgraded version of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. As a workaround for this issue, run the following command with the following ipsecConfig  configuration in the Cluster Network Operator (CNO) CR:

```terminal
$ oc patch networks.operator.openshift.io cluster --type=merge -p \
  '{
  "spec":{
    "defaultNetwork":{
      "ovnKubernetesConfig":{
        "ipsecConfig":{
          "mode":"Full"
        }}}}}'
```


After you run the command, the CNO collects must-gather logs that you can inspect.

(OCPBUGS-52367)
* There is a known issue with Gateway API and Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and Microsoft Azure private clusters. The load balancer that is provisioned for a gateway is always configured to be external, which can cause errors or unexpected behavior:
* In an AWS private cluster, the load balancer becomes stuck in the pending state and reports the error: Error syncing load balancer: failed to ensure load balancer: could not find any suitable subnets for creating the ELB.
* In GCP and Azure private clusters, the load balancer is provisioned with an external IP address, when it should not have an external IP address.

There is no supported workaround for this issue. (OCPBUGS-57440)

* In the event of a crash, the mlx5_core NIC driver causes an out-of-memory issue and kdump does not save the vmcore file in /var/crash.
To save the vmcore file, use the crashkernel setting to reserve 1024 MB of memory for the kdump kernel. (OCPBUGS-54520, RHEL-90663)
* There is a known latency issue on 4th Gen Intel Xeon processors. (OCPBUGS-42495)

* Currently, pods that use a guaranteed QoS class and request whole CPUs might not restart automatically after a node reboot or kubelet restart. The issue might occur in nodes configured with a static CPU Manager policy and using the full-pcpus-only specification, and when most or all CPUs on the node are already allocated by such workloads. As a workaround, manually delete and re-create the affected pods. (OCPBUGS-43280)
* Currently, when a irqbalance service runs on a specific AArch64 machine, a buffer overflow issue might cause the service to crash. As a consequence, latency sensitive workloads might be affected by unmanaged interrupts that are not properly distributed across CPUs, leading to performance degradation. There is currently no workaround for this issue. (RHEL-89986)
* Currently, on clusters with SR-IOV network virtual functions configured, a race condition might occur between system services responsible for network device renaming and the TuneD service managed by the Node Tuning Operator. As a consequence, the TuneD profile might become degraded after the node restarts, leading to performance degradation. As a workaround, restart the TuneD pod to restore the profile state. (OCPBUGS-41934)

* NFS volumes exported from VMware vSAN Files cannot be mounted by clusters running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 due to RHEL-83435. To avoid this issue, ensure that you are running VMware ESXi and vSAN at the latest patch versions of 8.0 P05, or later. (OCPBUGS-55978)

# Asynchronous errata updates

Security, bug fix, and enhancement updates for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 are released as asynchronous errata through the Red&#160;Hat Network. All Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 errata is available on the Red Hat Customer Portal. See the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle for more information about asynchronous errata.

Red&#160;Hat Customer Portal users can enable errata notifications in the account settings for Red&#160;Hat Subscription Management (RHSM). When errata notifications are enabled, users are notified through email whenever new errata relevant to their registered systems are released.


[NOTE]
----
Red Hat Customer Portal user accounts must have systems registered and consuming Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform entitlements for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform errata notification emails to generate.
----

This section will continue to be updated over time to provide notes on enhancements and bug fixes for future asynchronous errata releases of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19. Versioned asynchronous releases, for example with the form Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.z, will be detailed in subsections. In addition, releases in which the errata text cannot fit in the space provided by the advisory will be detailed in subsections that follow.


[IMPORTANT]
----
For any Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release, always review the instructions on updating your cluster properly.
----

## RHSA-2025:13848 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.9 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 19 August 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.9, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:13848 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2025:13827 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.9 --pullspecs
```


### Bug fixes

* Before this update, boot images for 4.1 and 4.2 failed to work with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, and caused degraded cluster operation. With this release, a static Grand Unified Bootloader (GRUB) configuration is installed for Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) and firmware components, and the cluster operates normally during node scaling. (OCPBUGS-52485)
* Before this update, the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) machine API was blocked by sequential reconciliation processing. As a consequence, users experienced slow scaling of nodes during GCP integration. With this release, the GCP machine API performance is improved by enabling parallel execution of many reconciliation processes. As a result, GCP node scaling performance improves. (OCPBUGS-59386)
* Before this update, users configured Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) custom recommenders using a version with an upstream issue in VPA. As a consequence, the issue caused instability in VPA updates. With this release, the custom VPA checkpoint garbage collector does not remove untracked checkpoints, and prevents instability in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. As a result, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform VPA updates are stable and constant pod rescheduling does not occur. (OCPBUGS-59638)
* Before this update, the machine config daemon failed Domain Name System (DNS) lookups during the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16 manifest application on VMware vSphere infrastructure. As a consequence, user DNS lookups failed during the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16 upgrade, halting upgrades indefinitely. With this release, retries of remote operating system updates with backoff are implemented to avoid failing because of CoreDNS pod restarts during the upgrades. (OCPBUGS-59899)
* Before this update, cluster upgrade failures occurred because of an increased reconcile attempts limit. This failure caused Prometheus pod unavailability and resulted in service degradation. With this release, the Operator allows an additional reconcile attempt before reporting failures. As a result, the cluster upgrade test stability is improved, reducing failure rate, and enhancing upgrade reliability. (OCPBUGS-59932)
* Before this update, the sidecar of a Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Precision Time Protocol (PTP) pod unexpectedly restarted after termination, and caused the clock class termination to fail with an exit code 7 error. As a consequence, the metrics were unavailable. With this release, the sidecar restart does not cause the clock class termination error in a Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform PTP pod, and does not stop during the restart. (OCPBUGS-59970)
* Before this update, when a user upgraded to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) rotated a Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificate. This caused an issue where nodes could not join the cluster during the scale-up process. With this release, the MCO provides a custom ARO resource that determines the necessary Subject Alternative Name (SAN) IP address, and adds it in the rotated TLS certificate. As a result, nodes can join the cluster during the scale-up process. (OCPBUGS-59978)
* Before this update, an interpolation error in the ResourceEventStream code format caused incorrect error messages when users connected to the event stream. With this release, the interpolation format for error messages in the event stream is correct. As a result, users see accurate error messages when they connect to the event stream. (OCPBUGS-60039)
* Before this update, the primary node port in the communication matrix project was unbound, and caused a missing communication flow and service unavailability on the primary node. With this release, the port on the controller manager is closed and is available only from the localhost. As a result, the service is bound to the correct port. (OCPBUGS-60132)
* Before this update, a MachineSet custom resource update failure occurred because of multiple arch annotation labels. As a consequence, the machine update failed. With this release, the update issue is corrected by allowing multiple labels in the {{capacity.cluster-autoscaler.kubernetes.io/labels}} annotation, and properly parses the architecture value. As a result, the Machine Config Operator does not fail during an update. (OCPBUGS-60224)
* Before this update, the LeaderWorkerSet Operator description was outdated. As a consequence, users experienced incorrect descriptions. With this release, the LeaderWorkerSet Operator description is updated and the description accurately describes the concept. (OCPBUGS-60225)
* Before this update, the cloud-event-proxy sidecar process terminated and caused the notification API to remain in a clockClass=0 state even when the pod recovered. As a consequence, the notification API remained inactive after the sidecar process terminated. With this release, the cloud-event-proxy process recovery does not result in a clockClass=0 state for the notification API. Now, the notification API correctly updates the clockClass variable when the cloud-event-proxy recovers. (OCPBUGS-60261)
* Before this update, insufficient obfuscation of new network data types in an OVN-K hosted cluster exposed sensitive data. As a consequence, user data was exposed. With this release, the anonymizer is updated to discover and obfuscate new network data types, and ensure secure communication. (OCPBUGS-60295)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2025:12341 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.7 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 05 August 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.7, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:12341 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2025:12342 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.7 --pullspecs
```


### Enhancements

* The KubeVirt Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver now supports volume expansion. Users can dynamically increase the size of their persistent volumes in their tenant cluster. This capability simplifies storage management, allowing for more flexible and scalable infrastructure. (OCPBUGS-58239)

### Bug fixes

* Before this update, a plugin conflict in the console modal occurred due to multiple plugins using the same CreateProjectModal extension point. As a consequence, only one plugin extension was used and the list order could not be changed. With this release, an update to the plugin store resolves extensions in the same order that are defined in the console operator configuration. As a result, anyone with permission to update the operator configuration can set the priority of the plugin. (OCPBUGS-56280)
* Before this update, when you clicked Configure in an AlertmanagerReceiversNotConfigured alert on the Overview page, a runtime error occurred.  With this release, improved navigation handling ensures that no runtime errors occur when you click Configure. (OCPBUGS-57105)
* Before this update, the /metrics/usage endpoint was updated to include authentication and Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protections. Because of this, requests to this endpoint started failing with a "forbidden" error message because the requests lacked the necessary CSRF token in the request cookie. With this release, a CSRF token was added to the /metrics/usage request cookie, which resolved the â€œforbiddenâ€ error message. (OCPBUGS-58331)
* Before this update, when you configured an OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider for a HostedCluster resource with an Open ID cluster that did not specify a client secret, a default secret name was automatically generated. As a consequence, you could not configure OIDC public clients because these clients cannot use client secrets. With this release, a default secret name is not generated when no client secret is provided. As a result, you can configure OIDC public clients. (OCPBUGS-58683)
* Before this update, when a Bare Metal Host (BMH) was marked as Provisioned or ExternallyProvisioned, the system would try to deprovision it or power it off first and the DataImage attached to the BMH would also prevent deletion. This issue blocked or slowed down host removal, creating operational inefficiencies. With this release, if the BMH has the detached annotation status and deletion is requested, the BMH transitions to the deleting state, allowing for direct deletion. (OCPBUGS-59133)
* Before this update, downloads on control plane nodes were inconsistently scheduled because of a mismatch between the node selector for downloads and the console pods. As a consequence, downloads were scheduled on random nodes, which caused potential resource contention and sub-optimal performance. With this release, downloaded workloads consistently schedule on control plane nodes, which improves resource allocation. (OCPBUGS-59488)
* Before this update, a cluster upgrade to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 caused inconsistent egress IP allocation due to stale Network Address Translation (NAT) handling. This issue occurred only when you deleted an egress IP pod while the OVN-Kubernetes controller for an egress node was down. As a consequence, duplicate Logical Router Policies and egress IP usage occurred, which caused inconsistent traffic flow and outage. With this release, egress IP allocation cleanup ensures consistent and reliable egress IP allocation in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.18 clusters. (OCPBUGS-59530)
* Before this update, if you did not have sufficient privileges when you logged into the console, the get started message occupied excessive space on pages. This issue prevented the complete display of important status messages such as no resources found. As a consequence, truncated versions of the messages were displayed. With this release, the get started message is resized and the page's disable property is removed to use less screen space and to allow scrolling. This fix allows users to view complete statuses and information on all pages. You can now view complete statuses and information on all pages. As a result, the get started content remains fully accessible through scrolling, which ensures the visibility of new user guidance and important system messages. (OCPBUGS-59639)
* Before this update, when you cloned a .tar file with zero length, the oc-mirror ran indefinitely due to an empty archive file. As a consequence, no progress occurred when you mirrored a 0-byte .tar file. With this release, 0-byte .tar files are detected and reported as errors, which prevents the oc-mirror from hanging. (OCPBUGS-59779)
* Before this update, the oc-mirror did not detect Helm Chart images that used an aliased sub-chart. As a consequence, the Helm Chart images were missing after mirroring. With this release, the oc-mirror detects and mirrors Helm Chart images with an aliased sub-chart. (OCPBUGS-59799)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2025:11673 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.6 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 29 July 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.6, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:11673 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2025:11674 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.6 --pullspecs
```


### Enhancements

* The KubeVirt Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver now supports volume expansion. Users can dynamically increase the size of their persistent volumes in their tenant cluster. This capability simplifies storage management, allowing for more flexible and scalable infrastructure. (OCPBUGS-58239)

### Bug fixes

* Before this release, the /metrics/usage endpoint was updated to include authentication and Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protections. Because of this, requests to this endpoint started failing with a "forbidden" error message because the requests lacked the necessary CSRF token in the request cookie. With this release, a CSRF token was added to the /metrics/usage request cookie, resolving the â€œforbiddenâ€ error message. (OCPBUGS-58331)
* Before this update, the console.flag/model extension point did not work, preventing flags from being properly set when their associated model was provided. With this release, the console.flag/model works as expected and properly sets a flag when the associated model is provided. (OCPBUGS-59513)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2025:11363 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.5 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 22 July 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.5, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:11363 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2025:11364 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.5 --pullspecs
```


### Bug fixes

* Before this update, bundle unpack jobs did not inherit control-plane tolerances from the catalog-operator that created them. As a consequence, the bundle unpack jobs ran on only worker nodes. If no worker nodes were available due to taints, then admins were unable to install or upgrade Operators on the cluster. With this release, control-plane tolerations are adopted for bundle unpack jobs so that the jobs are executed on primary nodes as part of the control plane. (OCPBUGS-59258)
* Before this update, intermittent egress internet protocol (IP) handling due to inconsistent state updates in `OVNkubernetes`caused packet drops. These packet drops affected network traffic flow. With this release, `OVNkubernetes`pods consistently use their assigned egress IPs. As a result, dropped packages are reduced and network traffic flow is improved. (OCPBUGS-59234)
* Before this update, the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud Provider did not set the default ping target of HTTP:10256/healthz for the  AWS Load Balancer. For the LoadBalancer Services that ran on AWS, the Load Balancer object created in AWS had a ping target of TCP:32518. As a consequence, the health probes for cluster-wide services did not work and the services were down during upgrades. With this release, the cloud config ClusterServiceLoadBalancerHealthProbeMode property is set to Shared to ensure that the config is passed to the AWS Cloud Provider. As a result, the AWS Load Balancers have the correct health check ping target of HTTP:10256/healthzwhich. (OCPBUGS-59101)
* Before this update, the MachineConfigOperator (MCO) installed the podman-etcd agent to enable testing while waiting for the RPM Package Manager (RPM) version to reach the repositories. With this release, the agent that was installed by MCO is removed because the RPM version is available. (OCPBUGS-58894)
* Before this update, when you ran the oc-mirror v2 disk-to-mirror workflow without valid mirror tar files, the returned error messages did not correctly identify the problem. With this release, the oc-mirror v2 workflow returns an error message that states no tar archives matching "mirror_[0-9]{6}\.tar" found in "<directory>". (OCPBUGS-58341)
* Before this update, the build controller searched for secrets that were linked for general use rather than specifically for the image pull. With this release, when the controller searches for the default image pull secrets, the builds use ImagePullSecrets that are linked to the service account. (OCPBUGS-57951)
* Before this update, combined specification and status updates lists triggered unnecessary firmware upgrades, which caused system downtime. With this release, a firmware upgrade optimization skips unnecessary firmware upgrades when a Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) URL is added. (OCPBUGS-56765)
* Before this update, when you defined the blockedImages value in the imageSetConfiguration parameter for oc-mirror v2, you were required to provide an extensive list of image references for excluding images from mirroring. This requirement sometimes prevented the exclusion of images from mirroring because the image digests changed between executions. With this release, you can use regular expressions for the blockedImages value to facilitate the exclusion of images from mirroring. (OCPBUGS-56728)
* Before this update the Observe > Metrics > query > QueryKebab > Export as csv drop-down item did not handle a undefined title element. As a consequence, you could not export the CSV file for certain queries on the Metrics tab of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Lister versions 4.16, 4.17, and 4.18. With this release, the metrics download for all queries correctly handles object properties in the drop-down menu items. As a result, the CSV export for all queries works on the Metrics page. (OCPBUGS-52592)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2025:10771 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.4 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 15 July 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.4, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:10771 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHBA-2025:10772 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.4 --pullspecs
```


### Bug fixes

* Previously, when the Gateway API feature was enabled, it installed an Istio control plane configured with one pod replica and an associated PodDisruptionBudget setting. The PodDisruptionBudget setting prevented the only pod replica from being evicted, blocking cluster upgrades. With this release, the Ingress Operator prevents the Istio control plane from being configured with the PodDisruptionBudget setting allowing cluster upgrades. (OCPBUGS-58394)
* Previously, a runtime error occurred when clicking Edit HorizontalPodAutoscaler using the form view. With this release, the Edit HorizontalPodAutoscaler form view renders as expected. (OCPBUGS-58377)
* Previously, forward slashes were permitted in console.tab/horizontalNav href values. Starting in version 4.15, a regression resulted in forward slashes no longer working correctly when used in href values. With this release, forward slashes in console.tab/horizontalNav href values continue to work as expected. (OCPBUGS-58375)
* Previously, when a hosted cluster was configured with a proxy URL such as http://user:pass@host, the authentication header was not getting forwarded by the Konnectivity proxy to the user proxy, which caused authentication to fail. With this release, the proper authentication header is sent when a user and password is specified in the proxy URL. (OCPBUGS-58335)
* Previously, a subset of endpoints on the console backend were gated by TokenReview requests to the API server. In some cases, the API server would throttle these requests, causing slower load times in the UI. With this release, the TokenReview gating was removed from all but one of our endpoints resulting in improved performance. (OCPBUGS-58316)
* Previously, the amount of requests that the oc-mirror plugin v2 sent many requests to container registries caused container registries to reject some requests with a too many requests error. With this release, the default values for several related parameters were adjusted to result in fewer requests being sent to the container registries. (OCPBUGS-58279)
* Previously, the kubelet server certificate was not updated after certificate rotation due to unauthorized access to the API server causing the cluster to start in an unhealthy state. With this release, the kubelet server certificate is updated after certificate rotation, ensuring a healthy cluster state. (OCPBUGS-58116)
* Previously, when on-premise installer-provisioned infrastructure deployments used the Cilium container network interface (CNI), the firewall rule that redirected traffic to the load balancer was ineffective. With this release, the rule works with the Cilium CNI and OVNKubernetes. (OCPBUGS-57781)
* Previously, deleting an istag resource with the --dry-run=server option unintentionally caused actual deletion of the image from the server. This unexpected deletion occurred due to the dry-run option being implemented incorrectly in the oc delete istag command. With this release, the dry-run option is now wired to the oc delete istag command, preventing accidental deletion of image objects and the istag object remains intact when using the --dry-run=server option. (OCPBUGS-57206)
* Previously, an outdated version of the Azure API prevented specifying a Capacity Reservation Group for a machine set, if that group resided in a different subscription than the one originating the server creation. With this release, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform uses a newer version of the Azure API that is compatible with this configuration. (OCPBUGS-56163)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHBA-2025:10290 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.3 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 08 July 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.3, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHBA-2025:10290 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHSA-2025:10291 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.3 --pullspecs
```


### Bug fixes

* Previously, useful error messages were not generated when the oc adm node-image create command failed. With this release, the oc adm node-image create command provides error messages when the command fails. (OCPBUGS-58077)
* Previously, when on-prem installer-provisioned infrastructure (IPI) deployments used the Cilium container network interface (CNI), the firewall rule that redirected traffic to the load balancer was ineffective. With this release, the rule works with the Cilium CNI and OVNKubernetes. (OCPBUGS-57781)
* Previously, when you defined the blockedImages value in the imageSetConfiguration parameter for oc-mirror v2, you were required to provide an extensive list of image references for excluding images from mirroring. This requirement sometimes prevented the exclusion of images from mirroring because the image digests changed between executions. With this release, you can use regular expressions for the blockedImages value to facilitate the exclusion of images from mirroring. (OCPBUGS-56728)
* Previously, certain traffic patterns with large packets running between Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes and pods triggered an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform host to send Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) needs frag to another Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform host. This situation lowered the viable maximum transmission unit (MTU) in the cluster. As a consequence, executing the ip route show cache command generated a cached route with a lower MTU than the physical link. Packets were dropped and Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components were degrading because the host did not send pod-to-pod traffic with the large packets. With this release, NF Tables rules prevent the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes from lowering their MTU in response to traffic patterns with large packets. (OCPBUGS-55997)
* Previously, you needed to update vSAN files to 8.0 P05 or later to enable clusters running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 to mount the network file system (NFS) volumes that were exported from the VMWare vSAN Files. With this release, you do not need to upgrade existing vSAN File Services versions to mount VMWare vSAN File volumes. (OCPBUGS-55978)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2025:9750 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.2 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 01 July 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.2, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:9750 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHSA-2025:9751 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.2 --pullspecs
```


### Bug fixes

* Previously, the installation program checked only the first compute machine pool entry in the install configuration to determine whether to disable the Machine Config Operator (MCO) boot image management feature. If multiple compute pools were specified (Amazon Web Services (AWS) edge nodes are the only supported scenario), but another compute machine pool had a custom Amazon Machine Image (AMI), the installation program would not disable the MCO boot image management and the custom AMI would be overwritten by the MCO. With this release, the installation program checks all compute machine pool entries and if a custom image is found, the MCO boot image management is disabled. (OCPBUGS-58060)
* Previously, if a user specified a custom boot image for Amazon Web Services (AWS) or the Google Cloud Platform (GCP), the Machine Config Operator (MCO) would overwrite it with the default boot image during installation. With this release, a manifest generation was added for MCO configuration which disables the default boot image during installation if a custom image is specified. (OCPBUGS-57796)
* Previously, a validation issue within oc-mirror plugin caused the command to reject the file://. reference. Users attempting to use file://. for a content path received an error message stating content filepath is tainted. With this release, the oc-mirror plugin properly validates the '.' directory reference. (OCPBUGS-57786)
* Previously, the oc-mirror v2 command was not using the correct filtered catalog during its operations, which led to errors such as including more operators than specified in the configuration, and trying to connect to the catalog registry during disk-to-mirror workflows even in air-gapped environments. With this release, the correct filtered catalog is used. (OCPBUGS-57784)
* Previously, the Red Hat OpenShift Lightspeed UI would disappear when the Create Project modal was opened or when modals on the Networking pages were triggered. This was due to the modals using the useModal hook causing the modals to overwrite each other. With this release, the modals no longer overwrite each other allowing multiple UI elements to be displayed simultaneously. (OCPBUGS-57755)
* Previously, the HAProxy configuration used the /version endpoint for health checks causing unreliable health checks to be generated. With this release, the liveness probe is customized to use /livez?exclude=etcd&exclude=log on IBM Cloud for more accurate health checks avoiding disruptions due to inappropriate probe configurations on Hypershift, while retaining /version for other platforms. (OCPBUGS-57485)
* Previously, the installer failed when AWS credentials were not found and the survey was attempting AWS regions preventing users from creating the install-config file. With this release, the installer no longer fails when AWS credentials are not set, allowing users to input them during the survey. (OCPBUGS-57394)
* Previously, cloning a persistent volume claim (PVC) in the web console resulted in an error due to an unsupported unit B for storage size. Because of this, users encountered errors when cloning the Red Hat OpenShift console PVC due to incorrect parsing of the storage size unit. With this release, support for B as unit of storage size has been removed from the Red Hat OpenShift console PVC. (OCPBUGS-57391)
* Previously, Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) v1 was used to install Operators with the olm.maxOpenShiftVersion set to  4.19.  Due to an issue with the OLM v1 parsing logic for floating-point formatted olm.maxOpenShiftVersion`values, the system failed to prevent upgrades to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform. With this release, the parsing logic for  `olm.maxOpenShiftVersion has been corrected preventing upgrades to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform when Operators with olm.maxOpenShiftVersion:4.19 are installed. (OCPBUGS-56852)
* Previously, one of the keepalived health check scripts was failing due to missing permissions. This could result in the incorrect assignment of the ingress Virtual IP Address (VIP) in environments using shared ingress services.  With this release, the necessary permission was added back to the container so the health check now works correctly.  (OCPBUGS-56623)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2025:9278 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.1 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 24 June 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.1, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2025:9278 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHSA-2025:9279 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.1 --pullspecs
```


### Bug fixes

* Previously, when you added vCenter cloud credentials for the post installation of the Assisted Installer, a bug was triggered because of an invalid ConfigMap object for the cloud provider configuration. As a result, a missing vcenterplaceholder error was displayed. With this release, the ConfigMap data is correct, and the error is not displayed. (OCPBUGS-57384)
* Previously, a network issue during an API call in a cluster caused a timeout in Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) Classic. As a consequence, Operator installations often failed because of timeout issues. With this release, the catalog cache refresh interval is updated to resolve timeout issues. As a result, the likelihood of Operator installation timeouts is reduced. (OCPBUGS-57352)
* Previously, Operator group reconciliation in Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) Classic triggered unnecessary ClusterRole updates because of the changing order of aggregation rule selectors. As a result, unnecessary API server writes occurred. With this release, a bug fix ensures the deterministic order of a ClusterRoleSelectors array in the aggregation rule, reducing unnecessary API server writes and improving cluster stability. (OCPBUGS-57279)
* Previously, ignoring the AdditionalTrustBundlePolicy setting in the assisted-service's installation configuration led to Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) and other installation configuration overrides. With this release, the installation configuration includes an AdditionalTrustBundlePolicy field, which you can set to ensure that FIPS and other installation configuration overrides function as intended. (OCPBUGS-57208)
* Previously, the authentication process for the /metrics endpoint was missing a token review check and caused unauthorized requests. As a result, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console was prone to TargetDown alerts. With this release, the token review for unauthorized requests occurs with the user token provided in the request context. As a result, unauthorized requests to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console do not cause TargetDown alerts. (OCPBUGS-57180)
* Previously, the Started column was hidden when screen size was reduced. As a consequence, the VirtualizedTable component malfunctioned because of a missing sort function, and the table sorting functionality was affected on the PipelineRun list pages. With this release, the table component handles missing sort functions correctly for reduced screen sizes. (OCPBUGS-57110)
* Previously, if you configured a masthead logo for a theme but used the default settings for the rest of the theme, the logo shown on the user interface was inconsistent. With this release, the masthead logo displays a default option for both light and dark themes, improving the interface consistency. (OCPBUGS-57054)
* Previously, the cluster installation failed because of an invalid security group configuration for a Network Load Balancer (NLB). This failure prevented the traffic from both primary subnets for bootstrapping. With this release, the security group allows traffic from both primary subnets for bootstrapping, and the cluster installation does not fail because of security group restrictions on additional primary subnets. (OCPBUGS-57039)
* Previously, users without project access saw an incomplete roles list on the Roles page because of improper API group access. With this release, users without project access cannot see an incomplete roles list on the Roles page. (OCPBUGS-56987)
* Previously, the node-image create command modified directory permissions and caused user directories to lose original permissions during the operation. With this release, the node-image create command preserves file permissions during the file-copying process by using the rsync tool, and ensures that user directories maintain original permissions during the operation. (OCPBUGS-56905)
* Previously, the delete keyword in image names was allowed in the ImageSetConfiguration file, which is not supported. As a consequence, users encountered errors while mirroring images. With this release, the error for image names ending with delete in the ImageSetConfiguration file has been removed. As a result, users can now successfully mirror images with names ending in delete. (OCPBUGS-56798)
* Previously, the user interface in the Observe Alerting field displayed incorrect alert severity icons for information alerts. With this release, the alert severity icons match in the Observe Alerting field. As a result, alert icons match consistently, reducing potential confusion for users. (OCPBUGS-56470)
* Previously, if you used an unauthorized access configuration file in the oc-mirror command, an Unauthorized error was displayed when you synchronized your image sets. With this release, the Docker configuration is updated to use a custom authorization file for authentication. You can successfully synchronize your image sets without encountering the Unauthorized error. (OCPBUGS-55701)

### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.

## RHSA-2024:11038 - Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19.0 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Issued: 17 June 2025

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release 4.19.0, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the RHSA-2024:11038 advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the RHEA-2025:2851 advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:


```terminal
$ oc adm release info 4.19.0 --pullspecs
```


### Updating

To update an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.19 cluster to this latest release, see Updating a cluster using the CLI.