Connecting to virtual machine consoles

You can connect to the following consoles to access running virtual machines (VMs):

VNC console

Serial console

Desktop viewer for Windows VMs
Connecting to the VNC console
You can connect to the VNC console of a virtual machine by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the virtctl command line tool.

Connecting to the VNC console by using the web console
You can connect to the VNC console of a virtual machine (VM) by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

If you connect to a Windows VM with a vGPU assigned as a mediated device, you can switch between the default display and the vGPU display.
On the Virtualization -> VirtualMachines page, click a VM to open the VirtualMachine details page.

Click the Console tab. The VNC console session starts automatically.

Optional: To switch to the vGPU display of a Windows VM, select Ctl + Alt + 2 from the Send key list.

To end the console session, click outside the console pane and then click Disconnect.
Connecting to the VNC console by using virtctl
You can use the virtctl command line tool to connect to the VNC console of a running virtual machine.

If you run the virtctl vnc command on a remote machine over an SSH connection, you must forward the X session to your local machine by running the ssh command with the -X or -Y flags.
You must install the virt-viewer package.


Run the following command to start the console session:

If the connection fails, run the following command to collect
troubleshooting information:
Generating a temporary token for the VNC console
Generate a temporary authentication bearer token for the Kubernetes API to access the VNC of a virtual machine (VM).

Kubernetes also supports authentication using client certificates, instead of a bearer token, by modifying the curl command.
A running virtual machine with OpenShift Virtualization 4.14 or later and ssp-operator 4.14 or later


Enable the feature gate in the HyperConverged (HCO) custom resource (CR):

Generate a token by running the following command:

Optional: Use the token provided in the output to create a variable:


You can now use the token to access the VNC console of a VM.

Log in to the cluster by running the following command:

Use virtctl to test access to the VNC console of the VM by running the following command:
Connecting to the serial console
You can connect to the serial console of a virtual machine by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the virtctl command line tool.

Running concurrent VNC connections to a single virtual machine is not currently supported.
Connecting to the serial console by using the web console
You can connect to the serial console of a virtual machine (VM) by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

On the Virtualization -> VirtualMachines page, click a VM to open the VirtualMachine details page.

Click the Console tab. The VNC console session starts automatically.

Click Disconnect to end the VNC console session. Otherwise, the VNC console session continues to run in the background.

Select Serial console from the console list.

To end the console session, click outside the console pane and then click Disconnect.
Connecting to the serial console by using virtctl
You can use the virtctl command line tool to connect to the serial console of a running virtual machine.

Run the following command to start the console session:

Press Ctrl+] to end the console session.
Connecting to the desktop viewer
You can connect to a Windows virtual machine (VM) by using the desktop viewer and the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).

Connecting to the desktop viewer by using the web console
You can connect to the desktop viewer of a Windows virtual machine (VM) by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You installed the QEMU guest agent on the Windows VM.

You have an RDP client installed.


On the Virtualization -> VirtualMachines page, click a VM to open the VirtualMachine details page.

Click the Console tab. The VNC console session starts automatically.

Click Disconnect to end the VNC console session. Otherwise, the VNC console session continues to run in the background.

Select Desktop viewer from the console list.

Click Create RDP Service to open the RDP Service dialog.

Select Expose RDP Service and click Save to create a node port service.

Click Launch Remote Desktop to download an .rdp file and launch the desktop viewer.