Troubleshooting installation issues

To assist in troubleshooting a failed Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation, you can gather logs from the bootstrap and control plane machines. You can also get debug information from the installation program. If you are unable to resolve the issue using the logs and debug information, see Determining where installation issues occur for component-specific troubleshooting.

If your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation fails and the debug output or logs contain network timeouts or other connectivity errors, review the guidelines for configuring your firewall. Gathering logs from your firewall and load balancer can help you diagnose network-related errors.
Prerequisites
You attempted to install an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster and the installation failed.
Gathering logs from a failed installation
If you gave an SSH key to your installation program, you can gather data about your failed installation.

You use a different command to gather logs about an unsuccessful installation than to gather logs from a running cluster. If you must gather logs from a running cluster, use the oc adm must-gather command.
Your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation failed before the bootstrap process finished. The bootstrap node is running and accessible through SSH.

The ssh-agent process is active on your computer, and you provided the same SSH key to both the ssh-agent process and the installation program.

If you tried to install a cluster on infrastructure that you provisioned, you must have the fully qualified domain names of the bootstrap and control plane nodes.


Generate the commands that are required to obtain the installation logs from
the bootstrap and control plane machines:
Manually gathering logs with SSH access to your host(s)
Manually gather logs in situations where must-gather or automated collection methods do not work.

By default, SSH access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes is disabled on the OpenStack based installations.
You must have SSH access to your host(s).


Collect the bootkube.service service logs from the bootstrap host using the
journalctl command by running:

Collect the bootstrap host's container logs using the podman logs. This is shown
as a loop to get all of the container logs from the host:

Alternatively, collect the host's container logs using the tail command by
running:

Collect the kubelet.service and crio.service service logs from the master
and worker hosts using the journalctl command by running:

Collect the master and worker host container logs using the tail command by
running:
Manually gathering logs without SSH access to your host(s)
Manually gather logs in situations where must-gather or automated collection methods do not work.

If you do not have SSH access to your node, you can access the systems journal to investigate what is happening on your host.

Your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation must be complete.

Your API service is still functional.

You have system administrator privileges.


Access journald unit logs under /var/log by running:

Access host file paths under /var/log by running:
Getting debug information from the installation program
You can use any of the following actions to get debug information from the installation program.

Look at debug messages from a past installation in the hidden .openshift_install.log file. For example, enter:

Change to the directory that contains the installation program and re-run it with --log-level=debug:
Reinstalling the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster
If you are unable to debug and resolve issues in the failed Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation, consider installing a new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. Before starting the installation process again, you must complete thorough cleanup. For a user-provisioned infrastructure (UPI) installation, you must manually destroy the cluster and delete all associated resources. The following procedure is for an installer-provisioned infrastructure (IPI) installation.

Destroy the cluster and remove all the resources associated with the cluster, including the hidden installer state files in the installation directory:

Before reinstalling the cluster, delete the installation directory:

Follow the procedure for installing a new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.


Installing an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster