Support for FIPS cryptography

You can install an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster in FIPS mode.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is designed for FIPS. When running Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) or Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) booted in FIPS mode, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform core components use the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-2/140-3 Validation on only the x86_64, ppc64le, and s390x architectures.

For more information about the NIST validation program, see Cryptographic Module Validation Program. For the latest NIST status for the individual versions of RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted for validation, see Compliance Activities and Government Standards.

To enable FIPS mode for your cluster, you must run the installation program from a RHEL 8 computer that is configured to operate in FIPS mode. Running RHEL 9 with FIPS mode enabled to install an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster is not possible.

For more information about configuring FIPS mode on RHEL, see Installing the system in FIPS mode.
For the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines in your cluster, this change is applied when the machines are deployed based on the status of an option in the install-config.yaml file, which governs the cluster options that a user can change during cluster deployment. With Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) machines, you must enable FIPS mode when you install the operating system on the machines that you plan to use as worker machines.

Because FIPS must be enabled before the operating system that your cluster uses boots for the first time, you cannot enable FIPS after you deploy a cluster.
FIPS validation in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform uses certain FIPS validated or Modules In Process modules within RHEL and RHCOS for the operating system components that it uses. See RHEL8 core crypto components. For example, when users use SSH to connect to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters and containers, those connections are properly encrypted.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components are written in Go and built with Red Hat's golang compiler. When you enable FIPS mode for your cluster, all Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components that require cryptographic signing call RHEL and RHCOS cryptographic libraries.
FIPS support in components that the cluster uses
Although the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster itself uses FIPS validated or Modules In Process modules, ensure that the systems that support your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster use FIPS validated or Modules In Process modules for cryptography.

etcd
To ensure that the secrets that are stored in etcd use FIPS validated or Modules In Process encryption, boot the node in FIPS mode. After you install the cluster in FIPS mode, you can encrypt the etcd data by using the FIPS-approved aes cbc cryptographic algorithm.
Storage
For local storage, use RHEL-provided disk encryption or Container Native Storage that uses RHEL-provided disk encryption. By storing all data in volumes that use RHEL-provided disk encryption and enabling FIPS mode for your cluster, both data at rest and data in motion, or network data, are protected by FIPS validated or Modules In Process encryption. You can configure your cluster to encrypt the root filesystem of each node, as described in Customizing nodes.
Runtimes
To ensure that containers know that they are running on a host that is using FIPS validated or Modules In Process cryptography modules, use CRI-O to manage your runtimes.
Installing a cluster in FIPS mode
To install a cluster in FIPS mode, follow the instructions to install a customized cluster on your preferred infrastructure. Ensure that you set fips: true in the install-config.yaml file before you deploy your cluster.

To enable FIPS mode for your cluster, you must run the installation program from a RHEL computer configured to operate in FIPS mode. For more information about configuring FIPS mode on RHEL, see Installing the system in FIPS mode.
Amazon Web Services

Alibaba Cloud

Microsoft Azure

Bare metal

Google Cloud Platform

IBM Cloud(R)

IBM Power(R)

IBM Z(R) and IBM(R) LinuxONE

IBM Z(R) and IBM(R) LinuxONE with RHEL KVM

OpenStack

VMware vSphere


If you are using Azure File storage, you cannot enable FIPS mode.
To apply AES CBC encryption to your etcd data store, follow the Encrypting etcd data process after you install your cluster.

If you add RHEL nodes to your cluster, ensure that you enable FIPS mode on the machines before their initial boot. See Adding RHEL compute machines to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster and Enabling FIPS Mode in the RHEL 8 documentation.