Updating a cluster that includes RHEL compute machines

You can perform minor version and patch updates on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. If your cluster contains Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) machines, you must take additional steps to update those machines.

The use of RHEL compute machines on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
Prerequisites
Have access to the cluster as a user with admin privileges.
See Using RBAC to define and apply permissions.

Have a recent etcd backup in case your update fails and you must restore your cluster to a previous state.

Your RHEL7 workers are replaced with RHEL8 or RHCOS workers. Red Hat does not support in-place RHEL7 to RHEL8 updates for RHEL workers; those hosts must be replaced with a clean operating system install.

If your cluster uses manually maintained credentials, update the cloud provider resources for the new release. For more information, including how to determine if this is a requirement for your cluster, see Preparing to update a cluster with manually maintained credentials.

If you run an Operator or you have configured any application with the pod disruption budget, you might experience an interruption during the update process. If minAvailable is set to 1 in PodDisruptionBudget, the nodes are drained to apply pending machine configs which might block the eviction process. If several nodes are rebooted, all the pods might run on only one node, and the PodDisruptionBudget field can prevent the node drain.


Support policy for unmanaged Operators
Updating a cluster by using the web console
If updates are available, you can update your cluster from the web console.

You can find information about available Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform advisories and updates in the errata section of the Customer Portal.

Have access to the web console as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You have access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

Pause all MachineHealthCheck resources.

You have updated all Operators previously installed through Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to a version that is compatible with your target release. Updating the Operators ensures they have a valid update path when the default OperatorHub catalogs switch from the current minor version to the next during a cluster update. See "Updating installed Operators" in the "Additional resources" section for more information on how to check compatibility and, if necessary, update the installed Operators.

Your machine config pools (MCPs) are running and not paused. Nodes associated with a paused MCP are skipped during the update process. You can pause the MCPs if you are performing a canary rollout update strategy.

Your RHEL7 workers are replaced with RHEL8 or RHCOS workers. Red Hat does not support in-place RHEL7 to RHEL8 updates for RHEL workers; those hosts must be replaced with a clean operating system install.


From the web console, click Administration -> Cluster Settings and review the contents of the Details tab.

For production clusters, ensure that the Channel is set to the correct channel for the version that you want to update to, such as stable-4.16.

Select a version to update to, and click Save.

After the update completes and the Cluster Version Operator refreshes the available updates, check if more updates are available in your current channel.


Updating installed Operators
Optional: Adding hooks to perform Ansible tasks on RHEL machines
You can use hooks to run Ansible tasks on the RHEL compute machines during the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform update.

About Ansible hooks for updates
When you update Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, you can run custom tasks on your Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) nodes during specific operations by using hooks. Hooks allow you to provide files that define tasks to run before or after specific update tasks. You can use hooks to validate or modify custom infrastructure when you update the RHEL compute nodes in you Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

Because when a hook fails, the operation fails, you must design hooks that are idempotent, or can run multiple times and provide the same results.

Hooks have the following important limitations: - Hooks do not have a defined or versioned interface. They can use internal openshift-ansible variables, but it is possible that the variables will be modified or removed in future Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform releases. - Hooks do not have error handling, so an error in a hook halts the update process. If you get an error, you must address the problem and then start the update again.
Configuring the Ansible inventory file to use hooks
You define the hooks to use when you update the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines, which are also known as worker machines, in the hosts inventory file under the all:vars section.

You have access to the machine that you used to add the RHEL compute machines
cluster. You must have access to the hosts Ansible inventory file that defines
your RHEL machines.


After you design the hook, create a YAML file that defines the Ansible tasks
for it. This file must be a set of tasks and cannot be a playbook, as shown in
the following example:

Modify the hosts Ansible inventory file to specify the hook files. The
hook files are specified as parameter values in the [all:vars] section,
as shown:
Available hooks for RHEL compute machines
You can use the following hooks when you update the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines in your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.
Updating RHEL compute machines in your cluster
After you update your cluster, you must update the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines in your cluster.

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) versions 8.6 and later are supported for RHEL compute machines.
You can also update your compute machines to another minor version of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform if you are using RHEL as the operating system. You do not need to exclude any RPM packages from RHEL when performing a minor version update.

You cannot update RHEL 7 compute machines to RHEL 8. You must deploy new RHEL 8 hosts, and the old RHEL 7 hosts should be removed.
You updated your cluster.

You have access to the local machine that you used to add the RHEL compute machines to your cluster. You must have access to the hosts Ansible inventory file that defines your RHEL machines and the upgrade playbook.

For updates to a minor version, the RPM repository is using the same version of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform that is running on your cluster.


Stop and disable firewalld on the host:

Enable the repositories that are required for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16:

Update a RHEL worker machine:

After you update all of the workers, confirm that all of your cluster nodes have updated to the new version:

Optional: Update the operating system packages that were not updated by the upgrade playbook. To update packages that are not on 4.16, use the following command: