Using Ansible inside an Operator

After you are familiar with using the Kubernetes Collection for Ansible locally, you can trigger the same Ansible logic inside of an Operator when a custom resource (CR) changes. This example maps an Ansible role to a specific Kubernetes resource that the Operator watches. This mapping is done in the watches.yaml file.
Custom resource files
Operators use the Kubernetes extension mechanism, custom resource definitions (CRDs), so your custom resource (CR) looks and acts just like the built-in, native Kubernetes objects.

The CR file format is a Kubernetes resource file. The object has mandatory and optional fields:


The following list of CR annotations modify the behavior of the Operator:


apiVersion: "test1.example.com/v1alpha1"
kind: "Test1"
metadata:
  name: "example"
annotations:
  ansible.operator-sdk/reconcile-period: "30s"
Testing an Ansible-based Operator locally
You can test the logic inside of an Ansible-based Operator running locally by using the make run command from the top-level directory of your Operator project. The make run Makefile target runs the ansible-operator binary locally, which reads from the watches.yaml file and uses your ~/.kube/config file to communicate with a Kubernetes cluster just as the k8s modules do.

You can customize the roles path by setting the environment variable ANSIBLE_ROLES_PATH or by using the ansible-roles-path flag. If the role is not found in the ANSIBLE_ROLES_PATH value, the Operator looks for it in {{current directory}}/roles.
Ansible Runner v2.3.3+

Ansible Runner HTTP Event Emitter plugin v1.0.0+

Performed the previous steps for testing the Kubernetes Collection locally


Install your custom resource definition (CRD) and proper role-based access control (RBAC) definitions for your custom resource (CR):

Run the make run command:

Create an instance of your CR with the default variable state set to present:

Check that the example-config config map was created:

Modify your config/samples/<gvk>.yaml file to set the state field to absent. For example:

Apply the changes:

Confirm that the config map is deleted:
Testing an Ansible-based Operator on the cluster
After you have tested your custom Ansible logic locally inside of an Operator, you can test the Operator inside of a pod on an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, which is preferred for production use.

You can run your Operator project as a deployment on your cluster.

Run the following make commands to build and push the Operator image. Modify the IMG argument in the following steps to reference a repository that you have access to. You can obtain an account for storing containers at repository sites such as Quay.io.

Run the following command to deploy the Operator:

Run the following command to verify that the Operator is running:
Ansible logs
Ansible-based Operators provide logs about the Ansible run, which can be useful for debugging your Ansible tasks. The logs can also contain detailed information about the internals of the Operator and its interactions with Kubernetes.

Viewing Ansible logs
Ansible-based Operator running as a deployment on a cluster


To view logs from an Ansible-based Operator, run the following command:
Enabling full Ansible results in logs
You can set the environment variable ANSIBLE_DEBUG_LOGS to True to enable checking the full Ansible result in logs, which can be helpful when debugging.

Edit the config/manager/manager.yaml and config/default/manager_auth_proxy_patch.yaml files to include the following configuration:
Enabling verbose debugging in logs
While developing an Ansible-based Operator, it can be helpful to enable additional debugging in logs.

Add the ansible.sdk.operatorframework.io/verbosity annotation to your custom resource to enable the verbosity level that you want. For example: