Managing platform Operators (Technology Preview)

A platform Operator is an OLM-based Operator that can be installed during or after an OpenShift Container Platform cluster's Day 0 operations and participates in the cluster's lifecycle. As a cluster administrator, you can manage platform Operators by using the PlatformOperator API.

The platform Operator type is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
About platform Operators
Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) introduces a new type of Operator called platform Operators. A platform Operator is an OLM-based Operator that can be installed during or after an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster's Day 0 operations and participates in the cluster's lifecycle. As a cluster administrator, you can use platform Operators to further customize your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation to meet your requirements and use cases.

Using the existing cluster capabilities feature in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", cluster administrators can already disable a subset of Cluster Version Operator-based (CVO) components considered non-essential to the initial payload prior to cluster installation. Platform Operators iterate on this model by providing additional customization options. Through the platform Operator mechanism, which relies on resources from the RukPak component, OLM-based Operators can now be installed at cluster installation time and can block cluster rollout if the Operator fails to install successfully.

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.12, this Technology Preview release focuses on the basic platform Operator mechanism and builds a foundation for expanding the concept in upcoming releases. You can use the cluster-wide PlatformOperator API to configure Operators before or after cluster creation on clusters that have enabled the TechPreviewNoUpgrades feature set.

RukPak component and packaging format

Cluster capabilities


Technology Preview restrictions for platform Operators
During the Technology Preview release of the platform Operators feature in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.12, the following restrictions determine whether an Operator can be installed through the platform Operators mechanism:

Kubernetes manifests must be packaged using the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) registry+v1 bundle format.

The Operator cannot declare package or group/version/kind (GVK) dependencies.

The Operator cannot specify cluster service version (CSV) install modes other than AllNamespaces

The Operator cannot specify any Webhook or APIService definitions.

All package bundles must be in the redhat-operators catalog source.


After considering these restrictions, the following Operators can be successfully installed:


The following features are not available during this Technology Preview release:

Automatically upgrading platform Operator packages after cluster rollout

Extending the platform Operator mechanism to support any optional, CVO-based components
Prerequisites
Access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using an account with cluster-admin permissions.

The TechPreviewNoUpgrades feature set enabled on the cluster.

Only the redhat-operators catalog source enabled on the cluster. This is a restriction during the Technology Preview release.

The oc command installed on your workstation.


Enabling features using feature gates

Disabling the default OperatorHub catalog sources
Installing platform Operators during cluster creation
As a cluster administrator, you can install platform Operators by providing FeatureGate and PlatformOperator manifests during cluster creation.

Choose a platform Operator from the supported set of OLM-based Operators. For the list of this set and details on current limitations, see "Technology Preview restrictions for platform Operators".

Select a cluster installation method and follow the instructions through creating an install-config.yaml file. For more details on preparing for a cluster installation, see "Selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users".

After you have created the install-config.yaml file and completed any modifications to it, change to the directory that contains the installation program and create the manifests:

Create a FeatureGate object YAML file in the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory that enables the TechPreviewNoUpgrade feature set, for example a feature-gate.yaml file:

Create a PlatformOperator object YAML file for your chosen platform Operator in the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory, for example a service-mesh-po.yaml file for the Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh Operator:

When you are ready to complete the cluster install, refer to your chosen installation method and continue through running the openshift-install create cluster command.


Check the status of the service-mesh-po platform Operator by running the following command:

Verify that the platform-operators-aggregated cluster Operator is reporting an Available=True status:


Selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users

Technology Preview restrictions for platform Operators
Installing platform Operators after cluster creation
As a cluster administrator, you can install platform Operators after cluster creation on clusters that have enabled the TechPreviewNoUpgrades feature set by using the cluster-wide PlatformOperator API.

Choose a platform Operator from the supported set of OLM-based Operators. For the list of this set and details on current limitations, see "Technology Preview restrictions for platform Operators".

Create a PlatformOperator object YAML file for your chosen platform Operator, for example a service-mesh-po.yaml file for the Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh Operator:

Create the PlatformOperator object by running the following command:


Check the status of the service-mesh-po platform Operator by running the following command:

Verify that the platform-operators-aggregated cluster Operator is reporting an Available=True status:


Technology Preview restrictions for platform Operators
Deleting platform Operators
As a cluster administrator, you can delete existing platform Operators. Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) performs a cascading deletion. First, OLM removes the bundle deployment for the platform Operator, which then deletes any objects referenced in the registry+v1 type bundle.

The platform Operator manager and bundle deployment provisioner only manage objects that are referenced in the bundle, but not objects subsequently deployed by any bundle workloads themselves. For example, if a bundle workload creates a namespace and the Operator is not configured to clean it up before the Operator is removed, it is outside of the scope of OLM to remove the namespace during platform Operator deletion.
Get a list of installed platform Operators and find the name for the Operator you want to delete:

Delete the PlatformOperator resource for the chosen Operator, for example, for the Quay Operator:


Verify the namespace for the platform Operator is eventually deleted, for example, for the Quay Operator:

Verify the platform-operators-aggregated cluster Operator continues to report an Available=True status: