Managing Operator conditions

As a cluster administrator, you can manage Operator conditions by using Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM).
Overriding Operator conditions
As a cluster administrator, you might want to ignore a supported Operator condition reported by an Operator. When present, Operator conditions in the Spec.Overrides array override the conditions in the Spec.Conditions array, allowing cluster administrators to deal with situations where an Operator is incorrectly reporting a state to Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM).

By default, the Spec.Overrides array is not present in an OperatorCondition object until it is added by a cluster administrator . The Spec.Conditions array is also not present until it is either added by a user or as a result of custom Operator logic.
For example, consider a known version of an Operator that always communicates that it is not upgradeable. In this instance, you might want to upgrade the Operator despite the Operator communicating that it is not upgradeable. This could be accomplished by overriding the Operator condition by adding the condition type and status to the Spec.Overrides array in the OperatorCondition object.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

An Operator with an OperatorCondition object, installed using OLM.


Edit the OperatorCondition object for the Operator:

Add a Spec.Overrides array to the object:
Updating your Operator to use Operator conditions
Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) automatically creates an OperatorCondition resource for each ClusterServiceVersion resource that it reconciles. All service accounts in the CSV are granted the RBAC to interact with the OperatorCondition owned by the Operator.

An Operator author can develop their Operator to use the operator-lib library such that, after the Operator has been deployed by OLM, it can set its own conditions. For more resources about setting Operator conditions as an Operator author, see the Enabling Operator conditions page.

Setting defaults
In an effort to remain backwards compatible, OLM treats the absence of an OperatorCondition resource as opting out of the condition. Therefore, an Operator that opts in to using Operator conditions should set default conditions before the ready probe for the pod is set to true. This provides the Operator with a grace period to update the condition to the correct state.
Additional resources
Operator conditions