Configuring proxy support in Operator Lifecycle Manager

If a global proxy is configured on the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) automatically configures Operators that it manages with the cluster-wide proxy. However, you can also configure installed Operators to override the global proxy or inject a custom CA certificate.

Configuring the cluster-wide proxy


Configuring a custom PKI (custom CA certificate)

Developing Operators that support proxy settings for Go, Ansible, and Helm
Overriding proxy settings of an Operator
If a cluster-wide egress proxy is configured, Operators running with Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) inherit the cluster-wide proxy settings on their deployments. Cluster administrators can also override these proxy settings by configuring the subscription of an Operator.

Operators must handle setting environment variables for proxy settings in the pods for any managed Operands.
Access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using an account with


Navigate in the web console to the Operators → OperatorHub page.

Select the Operator and click Install.

On the Install Operator page, modify the Subscription object to include one or more of the following environment variables in the spec section:

Click Install to make the Operator available to the selected namespaces.

After the CSV for the Operator appears in the relevant namespace, you can verify that custom proxy environment variables are set in the deployment. For example, using the CLI:
Injecting a custom CA certificate
When a cluster administrator adds a custom CA certificate to a cluster using a config map, the Cluster Network Operator merges the user-provided certificates and system CA certificates into a single bundle. You can inject this merged bundle into your Operator running on Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), which is useful if you have a man-in-the-middle HTTPS proxy.

Access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using an account with

Custom CA certificate added to the cluster using a config map.

Desired Operator installed and running on OLM.


Create an empty config map in the namespace where the subscription for your Operator exists and include the following label:

Update the Subscription object to include a spec.config section that mounts the trusted-ca config map as a volume to each container within a pod that requires a custom CA: