Viewing Operator status

Understanding the state of the system in Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) is important for making decisions about and debugging problems with installed Operators. OLM provides insight into subscriptions and related catalog sources regarding their state and actions performed. This helps users better understand the healthiness of their Operators.
Operator subscription condition types
Subscriptions can report the following condition types:


Default Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster Operators are managed by the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) and they do not have a Subscription object. Application Operators are managed by Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and they have a Subscription object.
Refreshing failing subscriptions
Viewing Operator subscription status by using the CLI
You can view Operator subscription status by using the CLI.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


List Operator subscriptions:

Use the oc describe command to inspect a Subscription resource:

In the command output, find the Conditions section for the status of Operator subscription condition types. In the following example, the CatalogSourcesUnhealthy condition type has a status of false because all available catalog sources are healthy:


Default Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster Operators are managed by the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) and they do not have a Subscription object. Application Operators are managed by Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and they have a Subscription object.
Viewing Operator catalog source status by using the CLI
You can view the status of an Operator catalog source by using the CLI.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


List the catalog sources in a namespace. For example, you can check the openshift-marketplace namespace, which is used for cluster-wide catalog sources:

Use the oc describe command to get more details and status about a catalog source:

List the pods in the namespace where your catalog source was created:

Use the oc describe command to inspect a pod for more detailed information:


Operator Lifecycle Manager concepts and resources -> Catalog source

gRPC documentation: States of Connectivity

Accessing images for Operators from private registries