Troubleshooting operating system issues

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform runs on RHCOS. You can follow these procedures to troubleshoot problems related to the operating system.
Investigating kernel crashes
The kdump service, included in the kexec-tools package, provides a crash-dumping mechanism. You can use this service to save the contents of a system's memory for later analysis.

The x86_64 architecture supports kdump in General Availability (GA) status, whereas other architectures support kdump in Technology Preview (TP) status.

The following table provides details about the support level of kdump for different architectures.


Kdump support, for the preceding three architectures in the table, is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Enabling kdump
RHCOS ships with the kexec-tools package, but manual configuration is required to enable the kdump service.

Perform the following steps to enable kdump on RHCOS.

To reserve memory for the crash kernel during the first kernel booting, provide kernel arguments by entering the following command:

Optional: To write the crash dump over the network or to some other location, rather than to the default local /var/crash location, edit the /etc/kdump.conf configuration file.

Enable the kdump systemd service.

Reboot your system.

Ensure that kdump has loaded a crash kernel by checking that the kdump.service systemd service has started and exited successfully and that the command, cat /sys/kernel/kexec_crash_loaded, prints the value 1.
Enabling kdump on day-1
The kdump service is intended to be enabled per node to debug kernel problems. Because there are costs to having kdump enabled, and these costs accumulate with each additional kdump-enabled node, it is recommended that the kdump service only be enabled on each node as needed. Potential costs of enabling the kdump service on each node include:

Less available RAM due to memory being reserved for the crash kernel.

Node unavailability while the kernel is dumping the core.

Additional storage space being used to store the crash dumps.


If you are aware of the downsides and trade-offs of having the kdump service enabled, it is possible to enable kdump in a cluster-wide fashion. Although machine-specific machine configs are not yet supported, you can use a systemd unit in a MachineConfig object as a day-1 customization and have kdump enabled on all nodes in the cluster. You can create a MachineConfig object and inject that object into the set of manifest files used by Ignition during cluster setup.

See "Customizing nodes" in the Installing -> Installation configuration section for more information and examples on how to use Ignition configs.
Create a MachineConfig object for cluster-wide configuration:

Create a Butane config file, 99-worker-kdump.bu, that configures and enables kdump:

Use Butane to generate a machine config YAML file, 99-worker-kdump.yaml, containing the configuration to be delivered to the nodes:

Put the YAML file into the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory during cluster setup. You can also create this MachineConfig object after cluster setup with the YAML file:
Testing the kdump configuration

Analyzing a core dump
It is recommended to perform vmcore analysis on a separate RHEL system.

Linux kernel documentation for kdump

kdump.conf(5) — a manual page for the /etc/kdump.conf configuration file containing the full documentation of available options

kexec(8) — a manual page for the kexec package

Red Hat Knowledgebase article regarding kexec and kdump
Debugging Ignition failures
If a machine cannot be provisioned, Ignition fails and RHCOS will boot into the emergency shell. Use the following procedure to get debugging information.

Run the following command to show which service units failed:

Optional: Run the following command on an individual service unit to find out more information: