Load balancing on RHOSP

Limitations of load balancer services
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) use Octavia to handle load balancer services. As a result of this choice, such clusters have a number of functional limitations.

RHOSP Octavia has two supported providers: Amphora and OVN. These providers differ in terms of available features as well as implementation details. These distinctions affect load balancer services that are created on your cluster.

Local external traffic policies
You can set the external traffic policy (ETP) parameter, .spec.externalTrafficPolicy, on a load balancer service to preserve the source IP address of incoming traffic when it reaches service endpoint pods. However, if your cluster uses the Amphora Octavia provider, the source IP of the traffic is replaced with the IP address of the Amphora VM. This behavior does not occur if your cluster uses the OVN Octavia provider.

Having the ETP option set to Local requires that health monitors be created for the load balancer. Without health monitors, traffic can be routed to a node that doesn't have a functional endpoint, which causes the connection to drop. To force Cloud Provider OpenStack to create health monitors, you must set the value of the create-monitor option in the cloud provider configuration to true.

In RHOSP 16.2, the OVN Octavia provider does not support health monitors. Therefore, setting the ETP to local is unsupported.

In RHOSP 16.2, the Amphora Octavia provider does not support HTTP monitors on UDP pools. As a result, UDP load balancer services have UDP-CONNECT monitors created instead. Due to implementation details, this configuration only functions properly with the OVN-Kubernetes CNI plugin. When the OpenShift SDN CNI plugin is used, the UDP services alive nodes are detected unreliably. This issue also affects the OVN Octavia provider in any RHOSP version because the driver does not support HTTP health monitors.
Scaling clusters for application traffic by using Octavia
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters that run on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) can use the Octavia load balancing service to distribute traffic across multiple virtual machines (VMs) or floating IP addresses. This feature mitigates the bottleneck that single machines or addresses create.

You must create your own Octavia load balancer to use it for application network scaling.

Scaling clusters by using Octavia
If you want to use multiple API load balancers, create an Octavia load balancer and then configure your cluster to use it.

Octavia is available on your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) deployment.


From a command line, create an Octavia load balancer that uses the Amphora driver:

After the load balancer becomes active, create listeners:

Create a pool that uses the round robin algorithm and has session persistence enabled:

To ensure that control plane machines are available, create a health monitor:

Add the control plane machines as members of the load balancer pool:

Optional: To reuse the cluster API floating IP address, unset it:

Add either the unset API_FIP or a new address to the created load balancer VIP:


Your cluster now uses Octavia for load balancing.
Services for an external load balancer
You can configure an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) to use an external load balancer in place of the default load balancer.

Configuring an external load balancer depends on your vendor's load balancer.

The information and examples in this section are for guideline purposes only. Consult the vendor documentation for more specific information about the vendor's load balancer.
Red Hat supports the following services for an external load balancer:

Ingress Controller

OpenShift API

OpenShift MachineConfig API


You can choose whether you want to configure one or all of these services for an external load balancer. Configuring only the Ingress Controller service is a common configuration option. To better understand each service, view the following diagrams:




The following configuration options are supported for external load balancers:

Use a node selector to map the Ingress Controller to a specific set of nodes. You must assign a static IP address to each node in this set, or configure each node to receive the same IP address from the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). Infrastructure nodes commonly receive this type of configuration.

Target all IP addresses on a subnet. This configuration can reduce maintenance overhead, because you can create and destroy nodes within those networks without reconfiguring the load balancer targets. If you deploy your ingress pods by using a machine set on a smaller network, such as a /27 or /28, you can simplify your load balancer targets.


Before you configure an external load balancer for your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster, consider the following information:

For a front-end IP address, you can use the same IP address for the front-end IP address, the Ingress Controller's load balancer, and API load balancer. Check the vendor's documentation for this capability.

For a back-end IP address, ensure that an IP address for an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform control plane node does not change during the lifetime of the external load balancer. You can achieve this by completing one of the following actions:

Manually define each node that runs the Ingress Controller in the external load balancer for the Ingress Controller back-end service. For example, if the Ingress Controller moves to an undefined node, a connection outage can occur.


Configuring an external load balancer
You can configure an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) to use an external load balancer in place of the default load balancer.

Before you configure an external load balancer, ensure that you read the "Services for an external load balancer" section.
Read the following prerequisites that apply to the service that you want to configure for your external load balancer.

MetalLB, that runs on a cluster, functions as an external load balancer.
You defined a front-end IP address.

TCP ports 6443 and 22623 are exposed on the front-end IP address of your load balancer. Check the following items:

The front-end IP address and port 6443 are reachable by all users of your system with a location external to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

The front-end IP address and port 22623 are reachable only by Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes.

The load balancer backend can communicate with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform control plane nodes on port 6443 and 22623.


You defined a front-end IP address.

TCP ports 443 and 80 are exposed on the front-end IP address of your load balancer.

The front-end IP address, port 80 and port 443 are be reachable by all users of your system with a location external to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

The front-end IP address, port 80 and port 443 are reachable to all nodes that operate in your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

The load balancer backend can communicate with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes that run the Ingress Controller on ports 80, 443, and 1936.


You can configure most load balancers by setting health check URLs that determine if a service is available or unavailable. Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides these health checks for the OpenShift API, Machine Configuration API, and Ingress Controller backend services.

The following examples demonstrate health check specifications for the previously listed backend services:

Path: HTTPS:6443/readyz
Healthy threshold: 2
Unhealthy threshold: 2
Timeout: 10
Interval: 10
Path: HTTPS:22623/healthz
Healthy threshold: 2
Unhealthy threshold: 2
Timeout: 10
Interval: 10
Path: HTTP:1936/healthz/ready
Healthy threshold: 2
Unhealthy threshold: 2
Timeout: 5
Interval: 10
Configure the HAProxy Ingress Controller, so that you can enable access to the cluster from your load balancer on ports 6443, 443, and 80:

Use the curl CLI command to verify that the external load balancer and its resources are operational:

Configure the DNS records for your cluster to target the front-end IP addresses of the external load balancer. You must update records to your DNS server for the cluster API and applications over the load balancer.

Use the curl CLI command to verify that the external load balancer and DNS record configuration are operational: