Configuring an IBM Cloud account

Before you can install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", you must configure an IBM Cloud&#174; account.

IBM Power Virtual Server using installer-provisioned infrastructure is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Prerequisites
You have an IBM Cloud&#174; account with a subscription. You cannot install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on a free or on a trial IBM Cloud&#174; account.
Quotas and limits on IBM Power Virtual Server
The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster uses several IBM Cloud&#174; and IBM Power&#174; Virtual Server components, and the default quotas and limits affect your ability to install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" clusters. If you use certain cluster configurations, deploy your cluster in certain regions, or run multiple clusters from your account, you might need to request additional resources for your IBM Cloud&#174; account.

For a comprehensive list of the default IBM Cloud&#174; quotas and service limits, see the IBM Cloud&#174; documentation for Quotas and service limits.


Each "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster creates its own Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). The default quota of VPCs per region is 10. If you have 10 VPCs created, you will need to increase your quota before attempting an installation.


By default, each cluster creates two application load balancers (ALBs):

Internal load balancer for the control plane API server

External load balancer for the control plane API server


You can create additional LoadBalancer service objects to create additional ALBs. The default quota of VPC ALBs are 50 per region. To have more than 50 ALBs, you must increase this quota.

VPC ALBs are supported. Classic ALBs are not supported for IBM Power&#174; Virtual Server.


Each "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster creates its own Transit Gateway to enable communication with a VPC. The default quota of transit gateways per account is 10. If you have 10 transit gateways created, you will need to increase your quota before attempting an installation.


There is a limit of one Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) service per IBM Power&#174; Virtual Server instance.


Due to networking limitations, there is a restriction of one OpenShift cluster installed through IPI per zone per account. This is not configurable.


By default, a cluster creates server instances with the following resources :

0.5 CPUs

32 GB RAM

System Type: s922

Processor Type: uncapped, shared

Storage Tier: Tier-3


The following nodes are created:

One bootstrap machine, which is removed after the installation is complete

Three control plane nodes

Three compute nodes


For more information, see Creating a Power Systems Virtual Server in the IBM Cloud&#174; documentation.
Configuring DNS resolution
How you configure DNS resolution depends on the type of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster you are installing:

If you are installing a public cluster, you use IBM Cloud&#174; Internet Services (CIS).

If you are installing a private cluster, you use IBM Cloud&#174; DNS Services (DNS Services).
Using IBM Cloud Internet Services for DNS resolution
The installation program uses IBM Cloud&#174; Internet Services (CIS) to configure cluster DNS resolution and provide name lookup for a public cluster.

This offering does not support IPv6, so dual stack or IPv6 environments are not possible.
You must create a domain zone in CIS in the same account as your cluster. You must also ensure the zone is authoritative for the domain. You can do this using a root domain or subdomain.

You have installed the IBM Cloud&#174; CLI.

You have an existing domain and registrar. For more information, see the IBM&#174; documentation.


Create a CIS instance to use with your cluster:

Connect an existing domain to your CIS instance:

Open the CIS web console, navigate to the Overview page, and note your CIS name servers. These name servers will be used in the next step.

Configure the name servers for your domains or subdomains at the domain's registrar or DNS provider. For more information, see the IBM Cloud&#174; documentation.
IBM Cloud IAM Policies and API Key
To install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" into your IBM Cloud&#174; account, the installation program requires an IAM API key, which provides authentication and authorization to access IBM Cloud&#174; service APIs. You can use an existing IAM API key that contains the required policies or create a new one.

For an IBM Cloud&#174; IAM overview, see the IBM Cloud&#174; documentation.

Pre-requisite permissions

Cluster-creation permissions

Access policy assignment
In IBM Cloud&#174; IAM, access policies can be attached to different subjects:

Access group (Recommended)

Service ID

User


The recommended method is to define IAM access policies in an access group. This helps organize all the access required for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" and enables you to onboard users and service IDs to this group. You can also assign access to users and service IDs directly, if desired.
Creating an API key
You must create a user API key or a service ID API key for your IBM Cloud&#174; account.

You have assigned the required access policies to your IBM Cloud&#174; account.

You have attached you IAM access policies to an access group, or other appropriate resource.


Create an API key, depending on how you defined your IAM access policies.
Supported IBM Power Virtual Server regions and zones
You can deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to the following regions:

dal (Dallas, USA)

eu-de (Frankfurt, Germany)

mad (Madrid, Spain)

sao (Sao Paulo, Brazil)

wdc (Washington DC, USA)


You might optionally specify the IBM Cloud&#174; region in which the installer will create any VPC components. Supported regions in IBM Cloud&#174; are:

us-south

eu-de

eu-es

eu-gb

jp-osa

au-syd

br-sao

ca-tor

jp-tok
Next steps
Creating an IBM Power&#174; Virtual Server workspace