Installing a cluster on IBM Power Virtual Server into an existing VPC

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version "4.15", you can install a cluster into an existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) on IBM Cloud&#174;. The installation program provisions the rest of the required infrastructure, which you can then further customize. To customize the installation, you modify parameters in the install-config.yaml file before you install the cluster.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You configured an IBM Cloud&#174; account to host the cluster.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.

You configured the ccoctl utility before you installed the cluster. For more information, see Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility.
About using a custom VPC
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", you can deploy a cluster using an existing IBM&#174; Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

Because the installation program cannot know what other components are in your existing subnets, it cannot choose subnet CIDRs and so forth. You must configure networking for the subnets to which you will install the cluster.

Requirements for using your VPC
You must correctly configure the existing VPC and its subnets before you install the cluster. The installation program does not create a VPC or VPC subnet in this scenario.

The installation program cannot:

Subdivide network ranges for the cluster to use

Set route tables for the subnets

Set VPC options like DHCP


The installation program requires that you use the cloud-provided DNS server. Using a custom DNS server is not supported and causes the installation to fail.
VPC validation
The VPC and all of the subnets must be in an existing resource group. The cluster is deployed to this resource group.

As part of the installation, specify the following in the install-config.yaml file:

The name of the resource group

The name of VPC

The name of the VPC subnet


To ensure that the subnets that you provide are suitable, the installation program confirms that all of the subnets you specify exists.

Subnet IDs are not supported.
Isolation between clusters
If you deploy "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" to an existing network, the isolation of cluster services is reduced in the following ways:

ICMP Ingress is allowed to the entire network.

TCP port 22 Ingress (SSH) is allowed to the entire network.

Control plane TCP 6443 Ingress (Kubernetes API) is allowed to the entire network.

Control plane TCP 22623 Ingress (MCS) is allowed to the entire network.
Internet access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access OpenShift Cluster Manager to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access
During an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation, you can provide an SSH public key to the installation program. The key is passed to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes through their Ignition config files and is used to authenticate SSH access to the nodes. The key is added to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys list for the core user on each node, which enables password-less authentication.

After the key is passed to the nodes, you can use the key pair to SSH in to the RHCOS nodes as the user core. To access the nodes through SSH, the private key identity must be managed by SSH for your local user.

If you want to SSH in to your cluster nodes to perform installation debugging or disaster recovery, you must provide the SSH public key during the installation process. The ./openshift-install gather command also requires the SSH public key to be in place on the cluster nodes.

Do not skip this procedure in production environments, where disaster recovery and debugging is required.
You must use a local key, not one that you configured with platform-specific approaches such as AWS key pairs.
If you do not have an existing SSH key pair on your local machine to use for authentication onto your cluster nodes, create one. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command:

View the public SSH key:

Add the SSH private key identity to the SSH agent for your local user, if it has not already been added. SSH agent management of the key is required for password-less SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes, or if you want to use the ./openshift-install gather command.

Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:


When you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", provide the SSH public key to the installation program.
Obtaining the installation program
Before you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", download the installation file on  the host you are using for installation.

You have a computer that runs Linux or macOS, with 500 MB of local disk space.


Access the Infrastructure Provider page on the OpenShift Cluster Manager site. If you have a Red Hat account, log in with your credentials. If you do not, create an account.

Select your infrastructure provider.

Navigate to the page for your installation type, download the installation program that corresponds with your host operating system and architecture, and place the file in the directory where you will store the installation configuration files.

Extract the installation program. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux
operating system, run the following command:

Download your installation pull secret from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" components.
Exporting the API key
You must set the API key you created as a global variable; the installation program ingests the variable during startup to set the API key.

You have created either a user API key or service ID API key for your IBM Cloud&#174; account.


Export your API key for your account as a global variable:


You must set the variable name exactly as specified; the installation program expects the variable name to be present during startup.
Creating the installation configuration file
You can customize the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster you install on

You have the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.


Create the install-config.yaml file.

Modify the install-config.yaml file. You can find more information about the available parameters in the "Installation configuration parameters" section.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use
it to install multiple clusters.


Installation configuration parameters for IBM Power&#174; Virtual Server


Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation
Each cluster machine must meet the following minimum requirements:


One vCPU is equivalent to one physical core when simultaneous multithreading (SMT), or hyperthreading, is not enabled. When enabled, use the following formula to calculate the corresponding ratio: (threads per core × cores) × sockets = vCPUs.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" and Kubernetes are sensitive to disk performance, and faster storage is recommended, particularly for etcd on the control plane nodes which require a 10 ms p99 fsync duration. Note that on many cloud platforms, storage size and IOPS scale together, so you might need to over-allocate storage volume to obtain sufficient performance.

As with all user-provisioned installations, if you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you take responsibility for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance, including performing system updates, applying patches, and completing all other required tasks. Use of RHEL 7 compute machines is deprecated and has been removed in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.10 and later.
If an instance type for your platform meets the minimum requirements for cluster machines, it is supported to use in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

Optimizing storage
Sample customized install-config.yaml file for IBM Power Virtual Server
You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

This sample YAML file is provided for reference only. You must obtain your install-config.yaml file by using the installation program and modify it.
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
compute: 1 2
- architecture: ppc64le
  hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: worker
  platform:
    powervs:
      smtLevel: 8 4
  replicas: 3
controlPlane: 1 2
  architecture: ppc64le
  hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: master
  platform:
    powervs:
      smtLevel: 8 4
  replicas: 3
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: example-cluster-existing-vpc
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14 5
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 192.168.0.0/24
  networkType: OVNKubernetes 6
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  powervs:
    userID: ibm-user-id
    powervsResourceGroup: "ibmcloud-resource-group"
    region: powervs-region
    vpcRegion : vpc-region
    vpcName: name-of-existing-vpc 7
    vpcSubnets: 8
    - powervs-region-example-subnet-1
    zone: powervs-zone
    serviceInstanceGUID: "powervs-region-service-instance-guid"
credentialsMode: Manual
publish: External 9
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}' 10
fips: false
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA... 11
If you do not provide these parameters and values, the installation program provides the default value.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the first line of the controlPlane section must not. Both sections currently define a single machine pool. Only one control plane pool is used.

Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or hyperthreading. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by setting the parameter value to Disabled. If you disable simultaneous multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster machines.

The smtLevel specifies the level of SMT to set to the control plane and compute machines. The supported values are 1, 2, 4, 8, 'off' and 'on'. The default value is 8. The smtLevel 'off' sets SMT to off and smtlevel 'on' sets SMT to the default value 8 on the cluster nodes.

The machine CIDR must contain the subnets for the compute machines and control plane machines.

The cluster network plugin for installation. The supported value is OVNKubernetes.

Specify the name of an existing VPC.

Specify the name of the existing VPC subnet. The subnets must belong to the VPC that you specified. Specify a subnet for each availability zone in the region.

Specify how to publish the user-facing endpoints of your cluster.

Required. The installation program prompts you for this value.

Provide the sshKey value that you use to access the machines in your cluster.
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Manually creating IAM
Installing the cluster requires that the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) operate in manual mode. While the installation program configures the CCO for manual mode, you must specify the identity and access management secrets for you cloud provider.

You can use the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) utility (ccoctl) to create the required IBM Cloud&#174; resources.

You have configured the ccoctl binary.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.


Edit the install-config.yaml configuration file so that it contains the credentialsMode parameter set to Manual.

To generate the manifests, run the following command from the directory that contains the installation program:

From the directory that contains the installation program, set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Create the service ID for each credential request, assign the policies defined, create an API key, and generate the secret:


Ensure that the appropriate secrets were generated in your cluster's manifests directory.
Deploying the cluster
You can install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that the cloud provider account on your host has the correct permissions to deploy the cluster. An account with incorrect permissions causes the installation process to fail with an error message that displays the missing permissions.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) to interact with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15". Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v"4.15" Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v"4.15" Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v"4.15" macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation.

You deployed an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:


Accessing the web console
Telemetry access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to OpenShift Cluster Manager.

After you confirm that your OpenShift Cluster Manager inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

About remote health monitoring
Next steps
Customize your cluster

Optional: Opt out of remote health reporting