Using remote health reporting in a restricted network

You can manually gather and upload Insights Operator archives to diagnose issues from a restricted network.

To use the Insights Operator in a restricted network, you must:

Create a copy of your Insights Operator archive.

Upload the Insights Operator archive to console.redhat.com.


Additionally, you can choose to obfuscate the Insights Operator data before upload.
Running an Insights Operator gather operation
You must run a gather operation to create an Insights Operator archive.

You are logged in to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform as cluster-admin.


Create a file named gather-job.yaml using this template:

Copy your insights-operator image version:

Paste your image version in gather-job.yaml:

Create the gather job:

Find the name of the job pod:

Verify that the operation has finished:

Save the created archive:

Clean up the job:
Uploading an Insights Operator archive
You can manually upload an Insights Operator archive to console.redhat.com to diagnose potential issues.

You are logged in to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform as cluster-admin.

You have a workstation with unrestricted internet access.

You have created a copy of the Insights Operator archive.


Download the dockerconfig.json file:

Copy your "cloud.openshift.com" "auth" token from the dockerconfig.json file:

Upload the archive to console.redhat.com:


Log in to https://console.redhat.com/openshift.

Click the Clusters menu in the left pane.

To display the details of the cluster, click the cluster name.

Open the Insights Advisor tab of the cluster.
Enabling Insights Operator data obfuscation
You can enable obfuscation to mask sensitive and identifiable IPv4 addresses and cluster base domains that the Insights Operator sends to console.redhat.com.

Although this feature is available, Red Hat recommends keeping obfuscation disabled for a more effective support experience.
Obfuscation assigns non-identifying values to cluster IPv4 addresses, and uses a translation table that is retained in memory to change IP addresses to their obfuscated versions throughout the Insights Operator archive before uploading the data to console.redhat.com.

For cluster base domains, obfuscation changes the base domain to a hardcoded substring. For example, cluster-api.openshift.example.com becomes cluster-api.<CLUSTER_BASE_DOMAIN>.

The following procedure enables obfuscation using the support secret in the openshift-config namespace.

You are logged in to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console as cluster-admin.


Navigate to Workloads -> Secrets.

Select the openshift-config project.

Search for the support secret using the Search by name field. If it does not exist, click Create -> Key/value secret to create it.

Click the Options menu ., and then click Edit Secret.

Click Add Key/Value.

Create a key named enableGlobalObfuscation with a value of true, and click Save.

Navigate to Workloads -> Pods

Select the openshift-insights project.

Find the insights-operator pod.

To restart the insights-operator pod, click the Options menu ., and then click Delete Pod.


Navigate to Workloads -> Secrets.

Select the openshift-insights project.

Search for the obfuscation-translation-table secret using the Search by name field.


If the obfuscation-translation-table secret exists, then obfuscation is enabled and working.

Alternatively, you can inspect /insights-operator/gathers.json in your Insights Operator archive for the value "is_global_obfuscation_enabled": true.

For more information on how to download your Insights Operator archive, see Showing data collected by the Insights Operator.