Assigning a secondary network to a VRF

As a cluster administrator, you can configure an additional network for a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) domain by using the CNI VRF plugin. The virtual network that this plugin creates is associated with the physical interface that you specify.

Using a secondary network with a VRF instance has the following advantages:


Workload isolation
Isolate workload traffic by configuring a VRF instance for the additional network.
Improved security
Enable improved security through isolated network paths in the VRF domain.
Multi-tenancy support
Support multi-tenancy through network segmentation with a unique routing table in the VRF domain for each tenant.


Applications that use VRFs must bind to a specific device. The common usage is to use the SO_BINDTODEVICE option for a socket. The SO_BINDTODEVICE option binds the socket to the device that is specified in the passed interface name, for example, eth1. To use the SO_BINDTODEVICE option, the application must have CAP_NET_RAW capabilities.

Using a VRF through the ip vrf exec command is not supported in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform pods. To use VRF, bind applications directly to the VRF interface.
About virtual routing and forwarding
Creating an additional network attachment with the CNI VRF plugin
The Cluster Network Operator (CNO) manages additional network definitions. When you specify an additional network to create, the CNO creates the NetworkAttachmentDefinition custom resource (CR) automatically.

Do not edit the NetworkAttachmentDefinition CRs that the Cluster Network Operator manages. Doing so might disrupt network traffic on your additional network.
To create an additional network attachment with the CNI VRF plugin, perform the following procedure.

Install the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform CLI (oc).

Log in to the OpenShift cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.


Create the Network custom resource (CR) for the additional network attachment and insert the rawCNIConfig configuration for the additional network, as in the following example CR. Save the YAML as the file additional-network-attachment.yaml.

Create the Network resource:

Confirm that the CNO created the NetworkAttachmentDefinition CR by running the following command. Replace <namespace> with the namespace that you specified when configuring the network attachment, for example, additional-network-1.


Create a pod and assign it to the additional network with the VRF instance:

Verify that the pod network attachment is connected to the VRF additional network. Start a remote session with the pod and run the following command:

Confirm that the VRF interface is the controller for the additional interface: