OADP 1.2 release notes

The release notes for OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2 describe new features and enhancements, deprecated features, product recommendations, known issues, and resolved issues.
OADP 1.2.4 release notes
OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2.4 is a Container Grade Only (CGO) release, released to refresh the health grades of the containers, with no changes to any code in the product itself compared to that of OADP 1.2.3.

Resolved issues
There are no resolved issues in OADP 1.2.4.
Known issues
The OADP 1.2.4 has the following known issue:

Currently, the OADP Operator does not reconcile when you update the cloud-credentials secret. This occurs because there are no OADP specific labels or owner references on the cloud-credentials secret. If you create a cloud-credentials secret with incorrect credentials, such as empty data, the Operator reconciles and creates a Backup Storage Location (BSL) and registry deployment with the empty data. As a result, when you update the cloud-credentials secret with the correct credentials, the Operator does not immediately reconcile to catch the new credentials.

Workaround: Update to OADP 1.3.

(OADP-3327)
OADP 1.2.3 release notes
New features
There are no new features in the release of OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2.3.
Resolved issues
The following highlighted issues are resolved in OADP 1.2.3:

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, the HTTP/2 protocol was susceptible to a denial of service attack because request cancellation could reset multiple streams quickly. The server had to set up and tear down the streams while not hitting any server-side limit for the maximum number of active streams per connection. This resulted in a denial of service due to server resource consumption. For a list of all OADP issues associated with this CVE, see the following Jira list.

For more information, see CVE-2023-39325 (Rapid Reset Attack).

For a complete list of all issues resolved in the release of OADP 1.2.3, see the list of OADP 1.2.3 resolved issues in Jira.
Known issues
The OADP 1.2.3 has the following known issue:

Currently, the OADP Operator does not reconcile when you update the cloud-credentials secret. This occurs because there are no OADP specific labels or owner references on the cloud-credentials secret. If you create a cloud-credentials secret with incorrect credentials, such as empty data, the Operator reconciles and creates a Backup Storage Location (BSL) and registry deployment with the empty data. As a result, when you update the cloud-credentials secret with the correct credentials, the Operator does not immediately reconcile to catch the new credentials.

Workaround: Update to OADP 1.3.

(OADP-3327)
OADP 1.2.2 release notes
New features
There are no new features in the release of OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2.2.
Resolved issues
The following highlighted issues are resolved in OADP 1.2.2:

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, OpenShift Container Platform 4.14 enforced a pod security admission (PSA) policy that hindered the readiness of pods during a Restic restore process.

This issue has been resolved in the release of OADP 1.2.2, and also OADP 1.1.6. Therefore, it is recommended that users upgrade to these releases.

For more information, see Restic restore partially failing on OCP 4.14 due to changed PSA policy. (OADP-2094)

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, the backup of an application with internal images partially failed with plugin panicked error returned. The backup partially fails with this error in the Velero logs:

time="2022-11-23T15:40:46Z" level=info msg="1 errors encountered backup up item" backup=openshift-adp/django-persistent-67a5b83d-6b44-11ed-9cba-902e163f806c logSource="/remote-source/velero/app/pkg/backup/backup.go:413" name=django-psql-persistent
time="2022-11-23T15:40:46Z" level=error msg="Error backing up item" backup=openshift-adp/django-persistent-67a5b83d-6b44-11ed-9cba-902e163f8
This issue has been resolved in OADP 1.2.2. (OADP-1057).

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, ACM cluster restore was not functioning as expected due to restore order. ACM applications were removed and re-created on managed clusters after restore activation. (OADP-2505)

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, due to storage provider implementation choices, whenever there was a difference between the application persistent volume claims (PVCs) storage request and the snapshot size of the same PVC, VM's using filesystemOverhead failed when backing up and restoring. This issue has been resolved in the Data Mover of OADP 1.2.2. (OADP-2144)

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, there was no option to set the VolSync replication source pruneInterval. (OADP-2052)

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, there was a possibility of pod volume backup failure if Velero was installed in multiple namespaces. (OADP-2409)

In previous releases of OADP 1.2, Backup Storage Locations moved to unavailable phase when Volume Snapshot Location used custom secret. (OADP-1737)

For a complete list of all issues resolved in the release of OADP 1.2.2, see the list of OADP 1.2.2 resolved issues in Jira.
Known issues
The following issues have been highlighted as known issues in the release of OADP 1.2.2:

The oc adm must-gather command fails to remove ClusterRoleBinding resources, which are left on cluster due to admission webhook. Therefore, requests for the removal of the ClusterRoleBinding resources are denied. (OADP-27730)

admission webhook "clusterrolebindings-validation.managed.openshift.io" denied the request: Deleting ClusterRoleBinding must-gather-p7vwj is not allowed
For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of OADP 1.2.2 known issues in Jira.
OADP 1.2.1 release notes
New features
There are no new features in the release of OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2.1.
Resolved issues
For a complete list of all issues resolved in the release of OADP 1.2.1, see the list of OADP 1.2.1 resolved issues in Jira.
Known issues
The following issues have been highlighted as known issues in the release of OADP 1.2.1:

The retention and prune features provided by VolSync and Restic are not working as expected. Because there is no working option to set the prune interval on VolSync replication, you have to manage and prune remotely stored backups on S3 storage outside of OADP. For more details, see:

OADP-2052

OADP-2048

OADP-2175

OADP-1690


OADP Data Mover is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of OADP 1.2.1 known issues in Jira.
OADP 1.2.0 release notes
The OADP 1.2.0 release notes include information about new features, bug fixes, and known issues.

New features
The new resourceTimeout option specifies the timeout duration in minutes for waiting on various Velero resources. This option applies to resources such as Velero CRD availability, volumeSnapshot deletion, and backup repository availability. The default duration is 10 minutes.

You can back up objects and snapshots on AWS S3 compatible providers.

Technical preview features
The OADP Data Mover enables you to back up Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume snapshots to a remote object store. When you enable Data Mover, you can restore stateful applications using CSI volume snapshots pulled from the object store in case of accidental cluster deletion, cluster failure, or data corruption.

OADP Data Mover is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Resolved issues
For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of OADP 1.2.0 resolved issues in Jira.
Known issues
The following issues have been highlighted as known issues in the release of OADP 1.2.0:

The HTTP/2 protocol is susceptible to a denial of service attack because request cancellation can reset multiple streams quickly. The server has to set up and tear down the streams while not hitting any server-side limit for the maximum number of active streams per connection. This results in a denial of service due to server resource consumption.

It is advised to upgrade to OADP 1.2.3, which resolves this issue.

For more information, see CVE-2023-39325 (Rapid Reset Attack).

By default, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster makes sure that the openshift.io/host.generated: true annotation is turned on and fills in the field for both the routes that are generated and those that are not generated.

You cannot modify the value for the .spec.host field based on the base domain name of your cluster in the generated and non-generated routes.

If you modify the value for the .spec.host field, it is not possible to restore the default value that was generated by the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. After you restore your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster, the Operator resets the value for the field.
Upgrade notes
Always upgrade to the next minor version. Do not skip versions. To update to a later version, upgrade only one channel at a time. For example, to upgrade from OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.1 to 1.3, upgrade first to 1.2, then to 1.3.
Changes from OADP 1.1 to 1.2
The Velero server was updated from version 1.9 to 1.11.

In OADP 1.2, the DataProtectionApplication (DPA) configuration dpa.spec.configuration.velero.args has the following changes:

The default-volumes-to-restic field was renamed to default-volumes-to-fs-backup. If you use dpa.spec.configuration.velero.args, you must add it again with the new name to your DPA after upgrading OADP.

The restic-timeout field was renamed to fs-backup-timeout. If you use dpa.spec.configuration.velero.args, you must add it again with the new name to your DPA after upgrading OADP.

The restic daemon set was renamed to node-agent. OADP automatically updates the name of the daemon set.

The custom resource definition resticrepositories.velero.io was renamed to backuprepositories.velero.io.

The custom resource definition resticrepositories.velero.io can be removed from the cluster.
Upgrading steps
Backing up the DPA configuration
You must back up your current DataProtectionApplication (DPA) configuration.

Save your current DPA configuration by running the following command:
Upgrading the OADP Operator
Use the following sequence when upgrading the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) Operator.

Change your subscription channel for the OADP Operator from stable-1.1 to stable-1.2.

Allow time for the Operator and containers to update and restart.


Configuring Amazon Web Services

Using Data Mover for CSI snapshots

Updating installed Operators
Converting DPA to the new version
If you use the fields that were updated in the spec.configuration.velero.args stanza, you must configure your DataProtectionApplication (DPA) manifest to use the new parameter names.

Click Operators → Installed Operators and select the OADP Operator.

Select Provided APIs, click Create instance in the DataProtectionApplication box.

Click YAML View to display the current DPA parameters.

Update the DPA parameters:

Update the DPA parameter names without changing their values:

Wait for the DPA to reconcile successfully.


The default timeout value for the Restic file system backup is one hour. In OADP 1.3.1 and later, the default timeout value for Restic and Kopia is four hours.
Verifying the upgrade
Use the following procedure to verify the upgrade.

Verify the installation by viewing the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) resources by running the following command:

Verify that the DataProtectionApplication (DPA) is reconciled by running the following command:

Verify the type is set to Reconciled.

Verify the backup storage location and confirm that the PHASE is Available by running the following command: