Container image signatures

Red Hat delivers signatures for the images in the Red Hat Container Registries. Those signatures can be automatically verified when being pulled to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4 clusters by using the Machine Config Operator (MCO).

Quay.io serves most of the images that make up Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, and only the release image is signed. Release images refer to the approved Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform images, offering a degree of protection against supply chain attacks. However, some extensions to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, such as logging, monitoring, and service mesh, are shipped as Operators from the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM). Those images ship from the Red Hat Ecosystem Catalog Container images registry.

To verify the integrity of those images between Red Hat registries and your infrastructure, enable signature verification.
Enabling signature verification for Red Hat Container Registries
Enabling container signature validation for Red Hat Container Registries requires writing a signature verification policy file specifying the keys to verify images from these registries. For RHEL8 nodes, the registries are already defined in /etc/containers/registries.d by default.

Create a Butane config file, 51-worker-rh-registry-trust.bu, containing the necessary configuration for the worker nodes.

Use Butane to generate a machine config YAML file, 51-worker-rh-registry-trust.yaml, containing the file to be written to disk on the worker nodes:

Apply the created machine config:

Check that the worker machine config pool has rolled out with the new machine config:

If your cluster uses any RHEL7 worker nodes, when the worker machine config pool is updated, create YAML files on those nodes in the /etc/containers/registries.d directory, which specify the location of the detached signatures for a given registry server. The following example works only for images hosted in registry.access.redhat.com and registry.redhat.io.
Verifying the signature verification configuration
After you apply the machine configs to the cluster, the Machine Config Controller detects the new MachineConfig object and generates a new rendered-worker-<hash> version.

You enabled signature verification by using a machine config file.


On the command line, run the following command to display information about a desired worker:

Run the oc describe command again:

Confirm that the policy.json file exists with the following command:

Confirm that the registry.redhat.io.yaml file exists with the following command:

Confirm that the registry.access.redhat.com.yaml file exists with the following command:
Understanding the verification of container images lacking verifiable signatures
Each Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image is immutable and signed with a Red Hat production key. During an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform update or installation, a release image might deploy container images that do not have verifiable signatures. Each signed release image digest is immutable. Each reference in the release image is to the immutable digest of another image, so the contents can be trusted transitively. In other words, the signature on the release image validates all release contents.

For example, the image references lacking a verifiable signature are contained in the signed Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image:

$ oc adm release info  quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ ocp-release@sha256:2309578b68c5666dad62aed696f1f9d778ae1a089ee461060ba7b9514b7ca417 -o pullspec 1
quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:9aafb914d5d7d0dec4edd800d02f811d7383a7d49e500af548eab5d00c1bffdb 2
Signed release image SHA.

Container image lacking a verifiable signature included in the release.


Automated verification during updates
Verification of signatures is automatic. The OpenShift Cluster Version Operator (CVO) verifies signatures on the release images during an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform update. This is an internal process. An Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation or update fails if the automated verification fails.

Verification of signatures can also be done manually using the skopeo command-line utility.

Introduction to OpenShift Updates
Using skopeo to verify signatures of Red Hat container images
You can verify the signatures for container images included in an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by pulling those signatures from OCP release mirror site. Because the signatures on the mirror site are not in a format readily understood by Podman or CRI-O, you can use the skopeo standalone-verify command to verify that the your release images are signed by Red Hat.

You have installed the skopeo command-line utility.


Get the full SHA for your release by running the following command:

Pull down the Red Hat release key by running the following command:

Get the signature file for the specific release that you want to verify by running the following command:

Get the manifest for the release image by running the following command:

Use skopeo to verify the signature:
Additional resources
Machine Config Overview