Understanding container security

Securing a containerized application relies on multiple levels of security:

Container security begins with a trusted base container image and continues
through the container build process as it moves through your CI/CD pipeline.

When a container is deployed, its security depends on it running
on secure operating systems and networks, and
establishing firm boundaries between the container itself and
the users and hosts that interact with it.

Continued security relies on being able to scan container images for
vulnerabilities and having an efficient way to correct and
replace vulnerable images.


Beyond what a platform such as "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" offers out of the box, your organization will likely have its own security demands. Some level of compliance verification might be needed before you can even bring "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" into your data center.

Likewise, you may need to add your own agents, specialized hardware drivers, or encryption features to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", before it can meet your organization's security standards.

This guide provides a high-level walkthrough of the container security measures available in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", including solutions for the host layer, the container and orchestration layer, and the build and application layer. It then points you to specific "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" documentation to help you achieve those security measures.

This guide contains the following information:

Why container security is important and how it compares with existing security standards.

Which container security measures are provided by the host (RHCOS and RHEL) layer and
which are provided by "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

How to evaluate your container content and sources for vulnerabilities.

How to design your build and deployment process to proactively check container content.

How to control access to containers through authentication and authorization.

How networking and attached storage are secured in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

Containerized solutions for API management and SSO.


The goal of this guide is to understand the incredible security benefits of using "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" for your containerized workloads and how the entire Red Hat ecosystem plays a part in making and keeping containers secure. It will also help you understand how you can engage with the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" to achieve your organization's security goals.
What are containers?
Containers package an application and all its dependencies into a single image that can be promoted from development, to test, to production, without change. A container might be part of a larger application that works closely with other containers.

Containers provide consistency across environments and multiple deployment targets: physical servers, virtual machines (VMs), and private or public cloud.

Some of the benefits of using containers include:


See Understanding Linux containers from the Red Hat Customer Portal to find out more about Linux containers. To learn about RHEL container tools, see Building, running, and managing containers in the RHEL product documentation.
What is "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"?
Automating how containerized applications are deployed, run, and managed is the job of a platform such as "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". At its core, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" relies on the Kubernetes project to provide the engine for orchestrating containers across many nodes in scalable data centers.

Kubernetes is a project, which can run using different operating systems and add-on components that offer no guarantees of supportability from the project. As a result, the security of different Kubernetes platforms can vary.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" is designed to lock down Kubernetes security and integrate the platform with a variety of extended components. To do this, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" draws on the extensive Red Hat ecosystem of open source technologies that include the operating systems, authentication, storage, networking, development tools, base container images, and many other components.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" can leverage Red Hat's experience in uncovering and rapidly deploying fixes for vulnerabilities in the platform itself as well as the containerized applications running on the platform. Red Hat's experience also extends to efficiently integrating new components with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" as they become available and adapting technologies to individual customer needs.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" architecture

OpenShift Security Guide