Installing a cluster on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) by using the Agent-based Installer

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", you can use the Agent-based Installer to install a cluster on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), so that you can run cluster workloads on infrastructure that supports dedicated, hybrid, public, and multiple cloud environments.
The Agent-based Installer and OCI overview
You can install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) by using the Agent-based Installer. Both Red Hat and Oracle test, validate, and support running OCI and Oracle&#174; Cloud VMware Solution (OCVS) workloads in an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on OCI.

Using the Agent-based Installer to install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on OCI that is configured with a virtual machine (VM) compute instance is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
The Agent-based installer provides the ease of use of the Assisted Installation service, but with the capability to install a cluster in either a connected or disconnected environment.

OCI provides services that can meet your regulatory compliance, performance, and cost-effectiveness needs. OCI supports 64-bit x86 instances and 64-bit ARM instances. Additionally, OCI provides an OCVS service where you can move VMware workloads to OCI with minimal application re-architecture.

Consider selecting a nonvolatile memory express (NVMe) drive or a solid-state drive (SSD) for your boot disk, because these drives offer low latency and high throughput capabilities for your boot disk.
By running your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on OCI, you can access the following capabilities:

Compute flexible shapes, where you can customize the number of Oracle&#174; CPUs (OCPUs) and memory resources for your VM. With access to this capability, a cluster’s workload can perform operations in a resource-balanced environment. You can find all RHEL-certified OCI shapes by going to the Oracle page on the Red Hat Ecosystem Catalog portal.

Block Volume storage, where you can configure scaling and auto-tuning settings for your storage volume, so that the Block Volume service automatically adjusts the performance level to optimize performance.

OCVS, where you can deploy a cluster in a public-cloud environment that operates on a VMware® vSphere software-defined data center (SDDC). You continue to retain full-administrative control over your VMware vSphere environment, but you can use OCI services to improve your applications on flexible, scalable, and secure infrastructure.


To ensure the best performance conditions for your cluster workloads that operate on OCI and on the OCVS service, ensure volume performance units (VPUs) for your block volume is sized for your workloads. The following list provides some guidance in selecting the VPUs needed for specific performance needs:

Test or proof of concept environment: 100 GB, and 20 to 30 VPUs.

Basic environment: 500 GB, and 60 VPUs.

Heavy production environment: More than 500 GB, and 100 or more VPUs.


Consider reserving additional VPUs to provide sufficient capacity for updates and scaling activities. For more information about VPUs, see Volume Performance Units in the Oracle documentation.
Installation process

Internet access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"

Understanding the Agent-based Installer

Overview of the Compute Service (Oracle documentation)

Volume Performance Units (Oracle documentation)
Creating OCI infrastructure resources and services
Before you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), you must create an OCI environment on your virtual machine (VM) shape. By creating this environment, you can install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" and deploy a cluster on infrastructure that supports a wide range of cloud options and strong security policies.

You have prior knowledge of OCI components. See Learn About Oracle Cloud Basics in the Oracle documentation.

Your organization signed up for an Oracle account and Identity Domain. This step is required so that you can access an administrator account, which is the initial cloud-identity and access management (IAM) user for your organization. See The administrators group and policy section in the Oracle documentation.

You have logged in to your organization’s OCI account with administrator privileges.


Create a compartment and ensure you defined your Oracle&#174; Cloud Identifier (OCID) in the compartment. A compartment is a component where you can organize and isolate your cloud resources. After you create a compartment, Oracle automatically assigns an OCID to your organization’s account. An administrator can access all compartments tagged to your organization’s OCI account.

Create a virtual cloud network (VCN). A compute instance, load balancer, and other resources need this network infrastructure to connect to each other over an internet connection. To establish an on-premise network you must manually create subnets, gateways, routing rules, and security policies. Ensure that you complete the following steps:

Create a network security group (NSG) in your VCN. You can use the NSG to establish advanced security rules for your network. You must locate the NSG in your compartment, so that certain groups can access network resources. Ensure that you complete the following steps:

Create a dynamic group that hosts compute instances. After you create the dynamic group, you can then create a policy statement that defines rules for your cluster environment. This statement sets the precedent  for each compute instance to join your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster as a self-managed node.

Create a policy statement. You must create a policy so that your administrator can grant access to your groups, users, or resources that operate in your network.

Create a load balancer, so that you can provide automated traffic distribution on your VCN.

Create three Domain Name System (DNS) records and then add the records to a DNS, so that Oracle’s edge-network can maintain your domain’s DNS queries.


Creating compartments (Oracle documentation)

Creating a VCN (Oracle documentation)

Creating an NSG (Oracle documentation)

Creating a dynamic group and a policy for self-managed nodes (Oracle documentation)

Managing policies (Oracle documentation)

Creating a load balancer (Oracle documentation)

Adding a record to a DNS zone (Oracle documentation)
Creating configuration files for installing a cluster on OCI
You need to create the install-config.yaml and the agent-config.yaml configuration files so that you can use the Agent-based Installer to generate a bootable ISO image. The Agent-based installation comprises a bootable ISO that has the Assisted discovery agent and the Assisted Service. Both of these components are required to perform the cluster installation, but the latter component runs on only one of the hosts.

In a later procedure, you can upload your generated agent ISO image to Oracle’s default Object Storage bucket, which is the initial step for integrating your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI).

You can also use the Agent-based Installer to generate or accept Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) custom resources.

You reviewed details about the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You have read the "Preparing to install with the Agent-based Installer" documentation.

You downloaded the Agent-Based Installer and the command-line interface (CLI) from the Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console.

You have logged in to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" with administrator privileges.


For a disconnected environment, mirror the Mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift to your local container image registry.

Configure the install-config.yaml configuration file to meet the needs of your organization.

Create a directory on your local system named openshift.

From the oracle-quickstart / oci-openshift GitHub web page, select the <> Code button and click Download ZIP. Save the archive file to your openshift directory,  so that all the Oracle Cloud Controller Manager (CCM) and Oracle Container Storage Interface (CSI) manifests exist in the same directory. The downloaded archive file includes files for creating cluster resources and custom manifests.

Go to the custom_manifests web page on GitHub to access the custom manifest files.

Use the Agent-based Installer to generate a minimal ISO image, which excludes the rootfs image, by entering the following command in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" CLI. You can use this image later in the process to boot all your cluster’s nodes.

Configure the agent-config.yaml configuration file to meet your organization’s requirements.

Apply one of the following two updates to your agent-config.yaml configuration file:


About "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation

Selecting a cluster installation type

Preparing to install with the Agent-based Installer

Downloading the Agent-based Installer

Mirroring the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" image repository

Optional: Using ZTP manifests
Configuring your firewall for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
Before you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", you must configure your firewall to grant access to the sites that "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" requires. When using a firewall, make additional configurations to the firewall so that "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" can access the sites that it requires to function.

For a disconnected environment, you must mirror content from both Red Hat and Oracle. This environment requires that you create firewall rules to expose your firewall to specific ports and registries.

If your environment has a dedicated load balancer in front of your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, review the allowlists between your firewall and load balancer to prevent unwanted network restrictions to your cluster.
Set the following registry URLs for your firewall's allowlist:

Set your firewall's allowlist to include any site that provides resources for a language or framework that your builds require.

If you do not disable Telemetry, you must grant access to the following URLs to access Red Hat Insights:

Set your firewall's allowlist to include the following registry URLs:

Set your firewall's allowlist to include the following external URLs. Each repository URL hosts OCI containers. Consider mirroring images to as few repositories as possible to reduce any performance issues.
Running a cluster on OCI
To run a cluster on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), you must upload the generated agent ISO image to the default Object Storage bucket on OCI. Additionally, you must create a compute instance from the supplied base image, so that your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" and OCI can communicate with each other for the purposes of running the cluster on OCI.

You generated an agent ISO image. See the "Creating configuration files for installing a cluster on OCI" section.


Upload the agent ISO image to Oracle’s default Object Storage bucket and then import the agent ISO image as a custom image to this bucket. You must then configure the custom image to boot in Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) mode. See Creating a custom image and Using the Console in Oracle’s documentation.

After the image imports, go to the Edit image capabilities setting and ensure that only UEFI_64 is selected for the Firmware field.

For instructions on creating a compute instance from the supplied base image for your cluster topology, see Creating an instance in the Oracle documentation. The following "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster topologies are supported on OCI:


Recommended resources for topologies
Verifying that your Agent-based cluster installation runs on OCI
Verify that your cluster was installed and is running effectively on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI).

You created all the required OCI resources and services. See the "Creating OCI infrastructure resources and services" section.

You created install-config.yaml and agent-config.yaml configuration files. See the "Creating configuration files for installing a cluster on OCI" section.

You uploaded the agent ISO image to Oracle’s default Object Storage bucket, and you created a compute instance on OCI. For more information, see "Running a cluster on OCI".


After you deploy the compute instance on a self-managed node in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, you can monitor the cluster’s status by choosing one of the following options:

From the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" CLI, enter the following command:

Use the kubeconfig API to check the status of various "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" components. For the  KUBECONFIG environment variable, set the relative path of the cluster’s kubeconfig configuration file:


Gathering log data from a failed Agent-based installation