Configuring ingress cluster traffic using a load balancer

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" provides methods for communicating from outside the cluster with services running in the cluster. This method uses a load balancer.
Using a load balancer to get traffic into the cluster
If you do not need a specific external IP address, you can configure a load balancer service to allow external access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

A load balancer service allocates a unique IP. The load balancer has a single edge router IP, which can be a virtual IP (VIP), but is still a single machine for initial load balancing.

If a pool is configured, it is done at the infrastructure level, not by a cluster administrator.
The procedures in this section require prerequisites performed by the cluster administrator.
Prerequisites
Before starting the following procedures, the administrator must:

Set up the external port to the cluster networking environment so that requests
can reach the cluster.

Make sure there is at least one user with cluster admin role. To add this role
to a user, run the following command:

Have an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster with at least one master and at least one node
and a system outside the cluster that has network access to the cluster. This
procedure assumes that the external system is on the same subnet as the cluster.
The additional networking required for external systems on a different subnet is
out-of-scope for this topic.
Creating a project and service
If the project and service that you want to expose do not exist, first create the project, then the service.

If the project and service already exist, skip to the procedure on exposing the service to create a route.

Install the oc CLI and log in as a cluster administrator.


Create a new project for your service by running the oc new-project command:

Use the oc new-app command to create your service:

To verify that the service was created, run the following command:
Exposing the service by creating a route
You can expose the service as a route by using the oc expose command.

To expose the service:

Log in to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

Log in to the project where the service you want to expose is located:

Run the oc expose service command to expose the route:

To verify that the service is exposed, you can use a tool, such as cURL, to make sure the service is accessible from outside the cluster.
Creating a load balancer service
Use the following procedure to create a load balancer service.

Make sure that the project and service you want to expose exist.

Your cloud provider supports load balancers.


To create a load balancer service:

Log in to  "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

Load the project where the service you want to expose is located.

Open a text file on the control plane node and paste the following text, editing the
file as needed:

Save and exit the file.

Run the following command to create the service:

Execute the following command to view the new service:

On the master, use a tool, such as cURL, to make sure you can reach the service
using the public IP address: