Configuring an ACME issuer

The cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift supports using Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) CA servers, such as Let's Encrypt, to issue certificates. Explicit credentials are configured by specifying the secret details in the Issuer API object. Ambient credentials are extracted from the environment, metadata services, or local files which are not explicitly configured in the Issuer API object.

The Issuer object is namespace scoped. It can only issue certificates from the same namespace. You can also use the ClusterIssuer object to issue certificates across all namespaces in the cluster.

apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: acme-cluster-issuer
spec:
  acme:
    ...
By default, you can use the ClusterIssuer object with ambient credentials. To use the Issuer object with ambient credentials, you must enable the --issuer-ambient-credentials setting for the cert-manager controller.
About ACME issuers
The ACME issuer type for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift represents an Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) certificate authority (CA) server. ACME CA servers rely on a challenge to verify that a client owns the domain names that the certificate is being requested for. If the challenge is successful, the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift can issue the certificate. If the challenge fails, the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift does not issue the certificate.

Private DNS zones are not supported with Let’s Encrypt and internet ACME servers.
Supported ACME challenges types
The cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift supports the following challenge types for ACME issuers:


HTTP-01
With the HTTP-01 challenge type, you provide a computed key at an HTTP URL endpoint in your domain. If the ACME CA server can get the key from the URL, it can validate you as the owner of the domain.
DNS-01
With the DNS-01 challenge type, you provide a computed key at a DNS TXT record. If the ACME CA server can get the key by DNS lookup, it can validate you as the owner of the domain.
Supported DNS-01 providers
The cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift supports the following DNS-01 providers for ACME issuers:

Amazon Route 53

Azure DNS

Google Cloud DNS

Webhook
Configuring an ACME issuer to solve HTTP-01 challenges
You can use cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to set up an ACME issuer to solve HTTP-01 challenges. This procedure uses Let's Encrypt as the ACME CA server.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have a service that you want to expose. In this procedure, the service is named sample-workload.


Create an ACME cluster issuer.

Create an Ingress to expose the service of the user workload.
Configuring an ACME issuer by using explicit credentials for AWS Route53
You can use cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to set up an Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using explicit credentials on AWS. This procedure uses Let's Encrypt as the ACME certificate authority (CA) server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Amazon Route 53.

You must provide the explicit accessKeyID and secretAccessKey credentials. For more information, see Route53 in the upstream cert-manager documentation.


Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check.

Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer:

Create a secret to store your AWS credentials in by running the following command:

Create an issuer:
Configuring an ACME issuer by using ambient credentials on AWS
You can use cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on AWS. This procedure uses Let's Encrypt as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Amazon Route 53.

If your cluster is configured to use the AWS Security Token Service (STS), you followed the instructions from the Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift for the AWS Security Token Service cluster section.

If your cluster does not use the AWS STS, you followed the instructions from the Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on AWS section.


Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check.

Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer:

Modify the CertManager resource to add the --issuer-ambient-credentials argument:

Create an issuer:
Configuring an ACME issuer by using explicit credentials for GCP Cloud DNS
You can use the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using explicit credentials on GCP. This procedure uses Let's Encrypt as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Google CloudDNS.

You have set up Google Cloud service account with a desired role for Google CloudDNS. For more information, see Google CloudDNS in the upstream cert-manager documentation.


Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check.

Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer:

Create a secret to store your GCP credentials by running the following command:

Create an issuer:
Configuring an ACME issuer by using ambient credentials on GCP
You can use the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP. This procedure uses Let's Encrypt as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Google CloudDNS.

If your cluster is configured to use GCP Workload Identity, you followed the instructions from the Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift with GCP Workload Identity section.

If your cluster does not use GCP Workload Identity, you followed the instructions from the Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on GCP section.


Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check.

Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer:

Modify the CertManager resource to add the --issuer-ambient-credentials argument:

Create an issuer:
Configuring an ACME issuer by using explicit credentials for Microsoft Azure DNS
You can use cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using explicit credentials on Microsoft Azure. This procedure uses Let's Encrypt as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Azure DNS.

You have set up a service principal with desired role for Azure DNS. For more information, see Azure DNS in the upstream cert-manager documentation.


Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check.

Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer:

Create a secret to store your Azure credentials in by running the following command:

Create an issuer:
Additional resources
Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift for the AWS Security Token Service cluster

Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on AWS

Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift with GCP Workload Identity

Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on GCP