Uninstalling the web terminal

Uninstalling the Web Terminal Operator does not remove any of the custom resource definitions (CRDs) or managed resources that are created when the Operator is installed. For security purposes, you must manually uninstall these components. By removing these components, you save cluster resources because terminals do not idle when the Operator is uninstalled.

Uninstalling the web terminal is a two-step process:

Uninstall the Web Terminal Operator and related custom resources (CRs) that were added when you installed the Operator.

Uninstall the DevWorkspace Operator and its related custom resources that were added as a dependency of the Web Terminal Operator.
Removing the Web Terminal Operator
You can uninstall the web terminal by removing the Web Terminal Operator and custom resources used by the Operator.

You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster with cluster administrator permissions.

You have installed the oc CLI.


In the Administrator perspective of the web console, navigate to Operators -> Installed Operators.

Scroll the filter list or type a keyword into the Filter by name box to find the Web Terminal Operator.

Click the Options menu . for the Web Terminal Operator, and then select Uninstall Operator.

In the Uninstall Operator confirmation dialog box, click Uninstall to remove the Operator, Operator deployments, and pods from the cluster. The Operator stops running and no longer receives updates.
Removing the DevWorkspace Operator
To completely uninstall the web terminal, you must also remove the DevWorkspace Operator and custom resources used by the Operator.

The DevWorkspace Operator is a standalone Operator and may be required as a dependency for other Operators installed in the cluster. Follow the steps below only if you are sure that the DevWorkspace Operator is no longer needed.
You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster with cluster administrator permissions.

You have installed the oc CLI.


Remove the DevWorkspace custom resources used by the Operator, along with any related Kubernetes objects:

Remove the CRDs used by the Operator:

Verify that all involved custom resource definitions are removed. The following command should not display any output:

Remove the devworkspace-webhook-server deployment, mutating, and validating webhooks:

Remove any remaining services, secrets, and config maps. Depending on the installation, some resources included in the following commands may not exist in the cluster.

Uninstall the DevWorkspace Operator: