Adding compute machines to vSphere manually

You can add more compute machines to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on VMware vSphere manually.

You can also use compute machine sets to automate the creation of additional VMware vSphere compute machines for your cluster.
Prerequisites
You installed a cluster on vSphere.

You have installation media and Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images that you used to create your cluster. If you do not have these files, you must obtain them by following the instructions in the installation procedure.


If you do not have access to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images that were used to create your cluster, you can add more compute machines to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster with newer versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images. For instructions, see Adding new nodes to UPI cluster fails after upgrading to OpenShift 4.6+.
Adding more compute machines to a cluster in vSphere
You can add more compute machines to a user-provisioned Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on VMware vSphere.

After your vSphere template deploys in your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster, you can deploy a virtual machine (VM) for a machine in that cluster.

Obtain the base64-encoded Ignition file for your compute machines.

You have access to the vSphere template that you created for your cluster.


Right-click the template's name and click Clone -> Clone to Virtual Machine.

On the Select a name and folder tab, specify a name for the VM. You might include the machine type in the name, such as compute-1.

On the Select a name and folder tab, select the name of the folder that you created for the cluster.

On the Select a compute resource tab, select the name of a host in your datacenter.

On the Select storage tab, select storage for your configuration and disk files.

On the Select clone options tab, select Customize this virtual machine's hardware.

On the Customize hardware tab, click Advanced Parameters.

In the Virtual Hardware panel of the Customize hardware tab, modify the specified values as required. Ensure that the amount of RAM, CPU, and disk storage meets the minimum requirements for the machine type. If many networks exist, select Add New Device > Network Adapter, and then enter your network information in the fields provided by the New Network menu item.

Complete the remaining configuration steps. On clicking the Finish button, you have completed the cloning operation.

From the Virtual Machines tab, right-click on your VM and then select Power -> Power On.


Continue to create more compute machines for your cluster.
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.