Installing a cluster on vSphere

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version {product-version}, you can install a cluster on your VMware vSphere instance by using installer-provisioned infrastructure.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports deploying a cluster to a single VMware vCenter only. Deploying a cluster with machines/machine sets on multiple vCenters is not supported.
Prerequisites
You have completed the tasks in Preparing to install a cluster using installer-provisioned infrastructure.

You reviewed your VMware platform licenses. Red Hat does not place any restrictions on your VMware licenses, but some VMware infrastructure components require licensing.

You reviewed details about the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You provisioned persistent storage for your cluster. To deploy a private image registry, your storage must provide
ReadWriteMany access modes.

The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installer requires access to port 443 on the vCenter and ESXi hosts. You verified that port 443 is accessible.

If you use a firewall, you confirmed with the administrator that port 443 is accessible. Control plane nodes must be able to reach vCenter and ESXi hosts on port 443 for the installation to succeed.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.
Internet access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access OpenShift Cluster Manager to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Deploying the cluster
You can install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that the cloud provider account on your host has the correct permissions to deploy the cluster. An account with incorrect permissions causes the installation process to fail with an error message that displays the missing permissions.

Optional: Before you create the cluster, configure an external load balancer in place of the default load balancer.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:

Provide values at the prompts:


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation.

You deployed an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:
Creating registry storage
After you install the cluster, you must create storage for the registry Operator.

Image registry removed during installation
On platforms that do not provide shareable object storage, the OpenShift Image Registry Operator bootstraps itself as Removed. This allows openshift-installer to complete installations on these platform types.

After installation, you must edit the Image Registry Operator configuration to switch the managementState from Removed to Managed.
Image registry storage configuration
The Image Registry Operator is not initially available for platforms that do not provide default storage. After installation, you must configure your registry to use storage so that the Registry Operator is made available.

Instructions are shown for configuring a persistent volume, which is required for production clusters. Where applicable, instructions are shown for configuring an empty directory as the storage location, which is available for only non-production clusters.

Additional instructions are provided for allowing the image registry to use block storage types by using the Recreate rollout strategy during upgrades.

Configuring registry storage for VMware vSphere
As a cluster administrator, following installation you must configure your registry to use storage.

Cluster administrator permissions.

A cluster on VMware vSphere.

Persistent storage provisioned for your cluster, such as Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.

Must have "100Gi" capacity.


Testing shows issues with using the NFS server on RHEL as storage backend for core services. This includes the OpenShift Container Registry and Quay, Prometheus for monitoring storage, and Elasticsearch for logging storage. Therefore, using RHEL NFS to back PVs used by core services is not recommended.

Other NFS implementations on the marketplace might not have these issues. Contact the individual NFS implementation vendor for more information on any testing that was possibly completed against these "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" core components.
To configure your registry to use storage, change the spec.storage.pvc in the configs.imageregistry/cluster resource.

Verify that you do not have a registry pod:

Check the registry configuration:

Check the clusteroperator status:
Configuring block registry storage for VMware vSphere
To allow the image registry to use block storage types such as vSphere Virtual Machine Disk (VMDK) during upgrades as a cluster administrator, you can use the Recreate rollout strategy.

Block storage volumes are supported but not recommended for use with image registry on production clusters. An installation where the registry is configured on block storage is not highly available because the registry cannot have more than one replica.
Enter the following command to set the image registry storage as a block storage type, patch the registry so that it uses the Recreate rollout strategy, and runs with only 1 replica:

Provision the PV for the block storage device, and create a PVC for that volume. The requested block volume uses the ReadWriteOnce (RWO) access mode.

Enter the following command to edit the registry configuration so that it references the correct PVC:


For instructions about configuring registry storage so that it references the correct PVC, see Configuring the registry for vSphere.
Telemetry access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to OpenShift Cluster Manager.

After you confirm that your OpenShift Cluster Manager inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

See About remote health monitoring for more information about the Telemetry service
Configuring an external load balancer
You can configure an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to use an external load balancer in place of the default load balancer.

MetalLB, that runs on a cluster, functions as an external load balancer.
Configuring an external load balancer depends on your vendor's load balancer.

The information and examples in this section are for guideline purposes only. Consult the vendor documentation for more specific information about the vendor's load balancer.
Red Hat supports the following services for an external load balancer:

Ingress Controller

OpenShift API

OpenShift MachineConfig API


You can choose whether you want to configure one or all of these services for an external load balancer. Configuring only the Ingress Controller service is a common configuration option. To better understand each service, view the following diagrams:




The following configuration options are supported for external load balancers:

Use a node selector to map the Ingress Controller to a specific set of nodes. You must assign a static IP address to each node in this set, or configure each node to receive the same IP address from the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). Infrastructure nodes commonly receive this type of configuration.

Target all IP addresses on a subnet. This configuration can reduce maintenance overhead, because you can create and destroy nodes within those networks without reconfiguring the load balancer targets. If you deploy your ingress pods by using a machine set on a smaller network, such as a /27 or /28, you can simplify your load balancer targets.


For a front-end IP address, you can use the same IP address for the front-end IP address, the Ingress Controller's load balancer, and API load balancer. Check the vendor's documentation for this capability.

For a back-end IP address, ensure that an IP address for an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" control plane node does not change during the lifetime of the external load balancer. You can achieve this by completing one of the following actions:

Manually define each node that runs the Ingress Controller in the external load balancer for the Ingress Controller back-end service. For example, if the Ingress Controller moves to an undefined node, a connection outage can occur.


You defined a front-end IP address.

TCP ports 6443 and 22623 are exposed on the front-end IP address of your load balancer. Check the following items:

The front-end IP address and port 6443 are reachable by all users of your system with a location external to your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

The front-end IP address and port 22623 are reachable only by "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes.

The load balancer backend can communicate with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" control plane nodes on port 6443 and 22623.


You defined a front-end IP address.

TCP ports 443 and 80 are exposed on the front-end IP address of your load balancer.

The front-end IP address, port 80 and port 443 are be reachable by all users of your system with a location external to your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

The front-end IP address, port 80 and port 443 are reachable to all nodes that operate in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

The load balancer backend can communicate with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes that run the Ingress Controller on ports 80, 443, and 1936.


You can configure most load balancers by setting health check URLs that determine if a service is available or unavailable. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" provides these health checks for the OpenShift API, Machine Configuration API, and Ingress Controller backend services.

The following examples demonstrate health check specifications for the previously listed backend services:

Path: HTTPS:6443/readyz
Healthy threshold: 2
Unhealthy threshold: 2
Timeout: 10
Interval: 10
Path: HTTPS:22623/healthz
Healthy threshold: 2
Unhealthy threshold: 2
Timeout: 10
Interval: 10
Path: HTTP:1936/healthz/ready
Healthy threshold: 2
Unhealthy threshold: 2
Timeout: 5
Interval: 10
Configure the HAProxy Ingress Controller, so that you can enable access to the cluster from your load balancer on ports 6443, 443, and 80:

Use the curl CLI command to verify that the external load balancer and its resources are operational:

Configure the DNS records for your cluster to target the front-end IP addresses of the external load balancer. You must update records to your DNS server for the cluster API and applications over the load balancer.

Use the curl CLI command to verify that the external load balancer and DNS record configuration are operational:
Next steps
Customize your cluster.

If necessary, you can
opt out of remote health reporting.

Set up your registry and configure registry storage.

Optional: View the events from the vSphere Problem Detector Operator to determine if the cluster has permission or storage configuration issues.