vSphere installation requirements

Before you begin an installation using installer-provisioned infrastructure, be sure that your vSphere environment meets the following installation requirements.
VMware vSphere infrastructure requirements
You must install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on one of the following versions of a VMware vSphere instance that meets the requirements for the components that you use:

Version 7.0 Update 3 or later

Version 8.0 Update 2 or later


Both of these releases support Container Storage Interface (CSI) migration, which is enabled by default on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15".

You can host the VMware vSphere infrastructure on-premise or on a VMware Cloud Verified provider that meets the requirements outlined in the following tables:


You must ensure that the time on your ESXi hosts is synchronized before you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". See Edit Time Configuration for a Host in the VMware documentation.

To ensure the best performance conditions for your cluster workloads that operate on Oracle&#174; Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and on the Oracle&#174; Cloud VMware Solution (OCVS) service, ensure volume performance units (VPUs) for your block volume are sized for your workloads.

The following list provides some guidance in selecting the VPUs needed for specific performance needs:

Test or proof of concept environment: 100 GB, and 20 to 30 VPUs.

Base-production environment: 500 GB, and 60 VPUs.

Heavy-use production environment: More than 500 GB, and 100 or more VPUs.


Consider allocating additional VPUs to give enough capacity for updates and scaling activities. See Block Volume Performance Levels in the Oracle documentation.
Network connectivity requirements
You must configure the network connectivity between machines to allow "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster components to communicate.

Review the following details about the required network ports.
VMware vSphere CSI Driver Operator requirements
To install the vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator, the following requirements must be met:

VMware vSphere version 7.0 Update 2 or later

vCenter 7.0 Update 2 or later

Virtual machines of hardware version 15 or later

No third-party vSphere CSI driver already installed in the cluster


If a third-party vSphere CSI driver is present in the cluster, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not overwrite it. The presence of a third-party vSphere CSI driver prevents "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" from updating to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.13 or later.

The VMware vSphere CSI Driver Operator is supported only on clusters deployed with platform: vsphere in the installation manifest.
You can create a custom role for the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver, the vSphere CSI Driver Operator, and the vSphere Problem Detector Operator. The custom role can include privilege sets that assign a minimum set of permissions to each vSphere object. This means that the CSI driver, the vSphere CSI Driver Operator, and the vSphere Problem Detector Operator can establish a basic interaction with these objects.

Installing an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected and unsupported behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a set of restricted privileges.
To remove a third-party vSphere CSI driver, see Removing a third-party vSphere CSI Driver.

To update the hardware version for your vSphere nodes, see Updating hardware on nodes running in vSphere.

Minimum permissions for the storage components
vCenter requirements
Before you install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on your vCenter that uses infrastructure that the installer provisions, you must prepare your environment.


To install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster in a vCenter, the installation program requires access to an account with privileges to read and create the required resources. Using an account that has global administrative privileges is the simplest way to access all of the necessary permissions.

If you cannot use an account with global administrative privileges, you must create roles to grant the privileges necessary for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster installation. While most of the privileges are always required, some are required only if you plan for the installation program to provision a folder to contain the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on your vCenter instance, which is the default behavior. You must create or amend vSphere roles for the specified objects to grant the required privileges.

An additional role is required if the installation program is to create a vSphere virtual machine folder.



Additionally, the user requires some ReadOnly permissions, and some of the roles require permission to propogate the permissions to child objects. These settings vary depending on whether or not you install the cluster into an existing folder.


For more information about creating an account with only the required privileges, see vSphere Permissions and User Management Tasks in the vSphere documentation.


After you create a custom role and assign privileges to it, you can create permissions by selecting specific vSphere objects and then assigning the custom role to a user or group for each object.

Before you create permissions or request for the creation of permissions for a vSphere object, determine what minimum permissions apply to the vSphere object. By doing this task, you can ensure a basic interaction exists between a vSphere object and "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" architecture.

If you create a custom role and you do not assign privileges to it, the vSphere Server by default assigns a Read Only role to the custom role. Note that for the cloud provider API, the custom role only needs to inherit the privileges of the Read Only role.
Consider creating a custom role when an account with global administrative privileges does not meet your needs.

Accounts that are not configured with the required privileges are unsupported. Installing an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges.
The following tables list the minimum permissions for a vSphere object that interacts with specific "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" architecture. VApp.Import






If you intend on using vMotion in your vSphere environment, consider the following before installing an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" generally supports compute-only vMotion, where generally implies that you meet all VMware best practices for vMotion.

Using Storage vMotion can cause issues and is not supported. If you are using vSphere volumes in your pods, migrating a VM across datastores, either manually or through Storage vMotion, causes invalid references within "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" persistent volume (PV) objects that can result in data loss.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not support selective migration of VMDKs across datastores, using datastore clusters for VM provisioning or for dynamic or static provisioning of PVs, or using a datastore that is part of a datastore cluster for dynamic or static provisioning of PVs.



When you deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster that uses installer-provisioned infrastructure, the installation program must be able to create several resources in your vCenter instance.

A standard "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation creates the following vCenter resources:

1 Folder

1 Tag category

1 Tag

Virtual machines:


Although these resources use 856 GB of storage, the bootstrap node is destroyed during the cluster installation process. A minimum of 800 GB of storage is required to use a standard cluster.

If you deploy more compute machines, the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster will use more storage.


Available resources vary between clusters. The number of possible clusters within a vCenter is limited primarily by available storage space and any limitations on the number of required resources. Be sure to consider both limitations to the vCenter resources that the cluster creates and the resources that you require to deploy a cluster, such as IP addresses and networks.


Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) for the network and ensure that the DHCP server is configured to provide persistent IP addresses to the cluster machines.

You do not need to use the DHCP for the network if you want to provision nodes with static IP addresses.
Configure the default gateway to use the DHCP server. All nodes must be in the same VLAN. You cannot scale the cluster using a second VLAN as a Day 2 operation.

You must use the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) for the network and ensure that the DHCP server is configured to provide persistent IP addresses to the cluster machines. In the DHCP lease, you must configure the DHCP to use the default gateway. All nodes must be in the same VLAN. You cannot scale the cluster using a second VLAN as a Day 2 operation.

If you are installing to a restricted environment, the VM in your restricted network must have access to vCenter so that it can provision and manage nodes, persistent volume claims (PVCs), and other resources.

Additionally, you must create the following networking resources before you install the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster:

It is recommended that each "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" node in the cluster must have access to a Network Time Protocol (NTP) server that is discoverable via DHCP. Installation is possible without an NTP server. However, asynchronous server clocks will cause errors, which NTP server prevents.

For a network that uses DHCP, an installer-provisioned vSphere installation requires two static IP addresses:

The API address is used to access the cluster API.

The Ingress address is used for cluster ingress traffic.


You must provide these IP addresses to the installation program when you install the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.


You must create DNS records for two static IP addresses in the appropriate DNS server for the vCenter instance that hosts your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. In each record, <cluster_name> is the cluster name and <base_domain> is the cluster base domain that you specify when you install the cluster. A complete DNS record takes the form: <component>.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>..



You can provision bootstrap, control plane, and compute nodes to be configured with static IP addresses in environments where Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) does not exist. To configure this environment, you must provide values to the platform.vsphere.hosts.role parameter in the install-config.yaml file.

Static IP addresses for vSphere nodes is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
By default, the installation program is configured to use the DHCP for the network, but this network has limited configurable capabilities.

After you define one or more machine pools in your install-config.yaml file, you can define network definitions for nodes on your network. Ensure that the number of network definitions matches the number of machine pools that you configured for your cluster.

The following example shows a network configuration for a node with the role compute:

---
platform:
  vsphere:
    hosts:
    - role: compute 1
      networkDevice:
        ipAddrs:
        - 192.168.204.10/24 2
        gateway: 192.168.204.1 3
        nameservers:
        - 192.168.204.1 4
---
Valid network definition values include bootstrap, control-plane, and compute. You must list at least one bootstrap network definition in your install-config.yaml configuration file.

Lists IPv4, IPv6, or both IP addresses that the installation program passes to the network interface. The machine API controller assigns all configured IP addresses to the default network interface.

The default gateway for the network interface.

Lists up to 3 DNS nameservers.


After you deployed your cluster to run nodes with static IP addresses, you can scale a machine to use one of these static IP addresses. Additionally, you can use a machine set to configure a machine to use one of the configured static IP addresses.

Scaling machines to use static IP addresses

Using a machine set to scale machines with configured static IP addresses