Installing a cluster on any platform

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.15, you can install a cluster on any infrastructure that you provision, including virtualization and cloud environments.

Review the information in the guidelines for deploying Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on non-tested platforms before you attempt to install an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster in virtualized or cloud environments.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.
Internet access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console] to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Requirements for a cluster with user-provisioned infrastructure
For a cluster that contains user-provisioned infrastructure, you must deploy all of the required machines.

This section describes the requirements for deploying Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on user-provisioned infrastructure.

Required machines for cluster installation
The smallest Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters require the following hosts:


To maintain high availability of your cluster, use separate physical hosts for these cluster machines.
The bootstrap and control plane machines must use Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) as the operating system. However, the compute machines can choose between Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS), Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8.6 and later.

Note that RHCOS is based on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9.2 and inherits all of its hardware certifications and requirements. See Red Hat Enterprise Linux technology capabilities and limits.
Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation
Each cluster machine must meet the following minimum requirements:


One vCPU is equivalent to one physical core when simultaneous multithreading (SMT), or hyperthreading, is not enabled. When enabled, use the following formula to calculate the corresponding ratio: (threads per core × cores) × sockets = vCPUs.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and Kubernetes are sensitive to disk performance, and faster storage is recommended, particularly for etcd on the control plane nodes which require a 10 ms p99 fsync duration. Note that on many cloud platforms, storage size and IOPS scale together, so you might need to over-allocate storage volume to obtain sufficient performance.

As with all user-provisioned installations, if you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you take responsibility for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance, including performing system updates, applying patches, and completing all other required tasks. Use of RHEL 7 compute machines is deprecated and has been removed in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.10 and later.
As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.13, RHCOS is based on RHEL version 9.2, which updates the micro-architecture requirements. The following list contains the minimum instruction set architectures (ISA) that each architecture requires:

x86-64 architecture requires x86-64-v2 ISA

ARM64 architecture requires ARMv8.0-A ISA

IBM Power architecture requires Power 9 ISA

s390x architecture requires z14 ISA


For more information, see RHEL Architectures.
If an instance type for your platform meets the minimum requirements for cluster machines, it is supported to use in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
Certificate signing requests management
Because your cluster has limited access to automatic machine management when you use infrastructure that you provision, you must provide a mechanism for approving cluster certificate signing requests (CSRs) after installation. The kube-controller-manager only approves the kubelet client CSRs. The machine-approver cannot guarantee the validity of a serving certificate that is requested by using kubelet credentials because it cannot confirm that the correct machine issued the request. You must determine and implement a method of verifying the validity of the kubelet serving certificate requests and approving them.
Networking requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure
All the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines require networking to be configured in initramfs during boot to fetch their Ignition config files.

During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a DHCP server or statically by providing the required boot options. After a network connection is established, the machines download their Ignition config files from an HTTP or HTTPS server. The Ignition config files are then used to set the exact state of each machine. The Machine Config Operator completes more changes to the machines, such as the application of new certificates or keys, after installation.

It is recommended to use a DHCP server for long-term management of the cluster machines. Ensure that the DHCP server is configured to provide persistent IP addresses, DNS server information, and hostnames to the cluster machines.

If a DHCP service is not available for your user-provisioned infrastructure, you can instead provide the IP networking configuration and the address of the DNS server to the nodes at RHCOS install time. These can be passed as boot arguments if you are installing from an ISO image. See the Installing RHCOS and starting the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform bootstrap process section for more information about static IP provisioning and advanced networking options.
The Kubernetes API server must be able to resolve the node names of the cluster machines. If the API servers and worker nodes are in different zones, you can configure a default DNS search zone to allow the API server to resolve the node names. Another supported approach is to always refer to hosts by their fully-qualified domain names in both the node objects and all DNS requests.

Setting the cluster node hostnames through DHCP
On Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines, the hostname is set through NetworkManager. By default, the machines obtain their hostname through DHCP. If the hostname is not provided by DHCP, set statically through kernel arguments, or another method, it is obtained through a reverse DNS lookup. Reverse DNS lookup occurs after the network has been initialized on a node and can take time to resolve. Other system services can start prior to this and detect the hostname as localhost or similar. You can avoid this by using DHCP to provide the hostname for each cluster node.

Additionally, setting the hostnames through DHCP can bypass any manual DNS record name configuration errors in environments that have a DNS split-horizon implementation.
Network connectivity requirements
You must configure the network connectivity between machines to allow Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster components to communicate. Each machine must be able to resolve the hostnames of all other machines in the cluster.

This section provides details about the ports that are required.

In connected Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform environments, all nodes are required to have internet access to pull images for platform containers and provide telemetry data to Red Hat.




Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform clusters are configured to use a public Network Time Protocol (NTP) server by default. If you want to use a local enterprise NTP server, or if your cluster is being deployed in a disconnected network, you can configure the cluster to use a specific time server. For more information, see the documentation for Configuring chrony time service.

If a DHCP server provides NTP server information, the chrony time service on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines read the information and can sync the clock with the NTP servers.

Configuring chrony time service
User-provisioned DNS requirements
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform deployments, DNS name resolution is required for the following components:

The Kubernetes API

The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform application wildcard

The bootstrap, control plane, and compute machines


Reverse DNS resolution is also required for the Kubernetes API, the bootstrap machine, the control plane machines, and the compute machines.

DNS A/AAAA or CNAME records are used for name resolution and PTR records are used for reverse name resolution. The reverse records are important because Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) uses the reverse records to set the hostnames for all the nodes, unless the hostnames are provided by DHCP. Additionally, the reverse records are used to generate the certificate signing requests (CSR) that Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform needs to operate.

It is recommended to use a DHCP server to provide the hostnames to each cluster node. See the DHCP recommendations for user-provisioned infrastructure section for more information.
The following DNS records are required for a user-provisioned Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster and they must be in place before installation. In each record, <cluster_name> is the cluster name and <base_domain> is the base domain that you specify in the install-config.yaml file. A complete DNS record takes the form: <component>.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>..


In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.4 and later, you do not need to specify etcd host and SRV records in your DNS configuration.
You can use the dig command to verify name and reverse name resolution. See the section on Validating DNS resolution for user-provisioned infrastructure for detailed validation steps.
Example DNS configuration for user-provisioned clusters
This section provides A and PTR record configuration samples that meet the DNS requirements for deploying Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on user-provisioned infrastructure. The samples are not meant to provide advice for choosing one DNS solution over another.

In the examples, the cluster name is ocp4 and the base domain is example.com.

The following example is a BIND zone file that shows sample A records for name resolution in a user-provisioned cluster.

$TTL 1W
@	IN	SOA	ns1.example.com.	root (
			2019070700	; serial
			3H		; refresh (3 hours)
			30M		; retry (30 minutes)
			2W		; expiry (2 weeks)
			1W )		; minimum (1 week)
	IN	NS	ns1.example.com.
	IN	MX 10	smtp.example.com.
;
;
ns1.example.com.		IN	A	192.168.1.5
smtp.example.com.		IN	A	192.168.1.5
;
helper.example.com.		IN	A	192.168.1.5
helper.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.5
;
api.ocp4.example.com.		IN	A	192.168.1.5 1
api-int.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.5 2
;
*.apps.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.5 3
;
bootstrap.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.96 4
;
control-plane0.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.97 5
control-plane1.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.98 5
control-plane2.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.99 5
;
compute0.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.11 6
compute1.ocp4.example.com.	IN	A	192.168.1.7 6
;
;EOF
Provides name resolution for the Kubernetes API. The record refers to the IP address of the API load balancer.

Provides name resolution for the Kubernetes API. The record refers to the IP address of the API load balancer and is used for internal cluster communications.

Provides name resolution for the wildcard routes. The record refers to the IP address of the application ingress load balancer. The application ingress load balancer targets the machines that run the Ingress Controller pods. The Ingress Controller pods run on the compute machines by default.

Provides name resolution for the bootstrap machine.

Provides name resolution for the control plane machines.

Provides name resolution for the compute machines.
The following example BIND zone file shows sample PTR records for reverse name resolution in a user-provisioned cluster.

$TTL 1W
@	IN	SOA	ns1.example.com.	root (
			2019070700	; serial
			3H		; refresh (3 hours)
			30M		; retry (30 minutes)
			2W		; expiry (2 weeks)
			1W )		; minimum (1 week)
	IN	NS	ns1.example.com.
;
5.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	api.ocp4.example.com. 1
5.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	api-int.ocp4.example.com. 2
;
96.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	bootstrap.ocp4.example.com. 3
;
97.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	control-plane0.ocp4.example.com. 4
98.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	control-plane1.ocp4.example.com. 4
99.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	control-plane2.ocp4.example.com. 4
;
11.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	compute0.ocp4.example.com. 5
7.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR	compute1.ocp4.example.com. 5
;
;EOF
Provides reverse DNS resolution for the Kubernetes API. The PTR record refers to the record name of the API load balancer.

Provides reverse DNS resolution for the Kubernetes API. The PTR record refers to the record name of the API load balancer and is used for internal cluster communications.

Provides reverse DNS resolution for the bootstrap machine.

Provides reverse DNS resolution for the control plane machines.

Provides reverse DNS resolution for the compute machines.
A PTR record is not required for the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform application wildcard.
Load balancing requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure
Before you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, you must provision the API and application Ingress load balancing infrastructure. In production scenarios, you can deploy the API and application Ingress load balancers separately so that you can scale the load balancer infrastructure for each in isolation.

If you want to deploy the API and application Ingress load balancers with a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) instance, you must purchase the RHEL subscription separately.
The load balancing infrastructure must meet the following requirements:

API load balancer: Provides a common endpoint for users, both human and machine, to interact with and configure the platform. Configure the following conditions:

Application Ingress load balancer: Provides an ingress point for application traffic flowing in from outside the cluster. A working configuration for the Ingress router is required for an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.


Example load balancer configuration for user-provisioned clusters
This section provides an example API and application Ingress load balancer configuration that meets the load balancing requirements for user-provisioned clusters. The sample is an /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg configuration for an HAProxy load balancer. The example is not meant to provide advice for choosing one load balancing solution over another.

In the example, the same load balancer is used for the Kubernetes API and application ingress traffic. In production scenarios, you can deploy the API and application ingress load balancers separately so that you can scale the load balancer infrastructure for each in isolation.

If you are using HAProxy as a load balancer and SELinux is set to enforcing, you must ensure that the HAProxy service can bind to the configured TCP port by running setsebool -P haproxy_connect_any=1.
global
  log         127.0.0.1 local2
  pidfile     /var/run/haproxy.pid
  maxconn     4000
  daemon
defaults
  mode                    http
  log                     global
  option                  dontlognull
  option http-server-close
  option                  redispatch
  retries                 3
  timeout http-request    10s
  timeout queue           1m
  timeout connect         10s
  timeout client          1m
  timeout server          1m
  timeout http-keep-alive 10s
  timeout check           10s
  maxconn                 3000
listen api-server-6443 1
  bind *:6443
  mode tcp
  option  httpchk GET /readyz HTTP/1.0
  option  log-health-checks
  balance roundrobin
  server bootstrap bootstrap.ocp4.example.com:6443 verify none check check-ssl inter 10s fall 2 rise 3 backup 2
  server master0 master0.ocp4.example.com:6443 weight 1 verify none check check-ssl inter 10s fall 2 rise 3
  server master1 master1.ocp4.example.com:6443 weight 1 verify none check check-ssl inter 10s fall 2 rise 3
  server master2 master2.ocp4.example.com:6443 weight 1 verify none check check-ssl inter 10s fall 2 rise 3
listen machine-config-server-22623 3
  bind *:22623
  mode tcp
  server bootstrap bootstrap.ocp4.example.com:22623 check inter 1s backup 2
  server master0 master0.ocp4.example.com:22623 check inter 1s
  server master1 master1.ocp4.example.com:22623 check inter 1s
  server master2 master2.ocp4.example.com:22623 check inter 1s
listen ingress-router-443 4
  bind *:443
  mode tcp
  balance source
  server compute0 compute0.ocp4.example.com:443 check inter 1s
  server compute1 compute1.ocp4.example.com:443 check inter 1s
listen ingress-router-80 5
  bind *:80
  mode tcp
  balance source
  server compute0 compute0.ocp4.example.com:80 check inter 1s
  server compute1 compute1.ocp4.example.com:80 check inter 1s
Port 6443 handles the Kubernetes API traffic and points to the control plane machines.

The bootstrap entries must be in place before the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster installation and they must be removed after the bootstrap process is complete.

Port 22623 handles the machine config server traffic and points to the control plane machines.

Port 443 handles the HTTPS traffic and points to the machines that run the Ingress Controller pods. The Ingress Controller pods run on the compute machines by default.

Port 80 handles the HTTP traffic and points to the machines that run the Ingress Controller pods. The Ingress Controller pods run on the compute machines by default.
If you are using HAProxy as a load balancer, you can check that the haproxy process is listening on ports 6443, 22623, 443, and 80 by running netstat -nltupe on the HAProxy node.
Preparing the user-provisioned infrastructure
Before you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on user-provisioned infrastructure, you must prepare the underlying infrastructure.

This section provides details about the high-level steps required to set up your cluster infrastructure in preparation for an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation. This includes configuring IP networking and network connectivity for your cluster nodes, enabling the required ports through your firewall, and setting up the required DNS and load balancing infrastructure.

After preparation, your cluster infrastructure must meet the requirements outlined in the Requirements for a cluster with user-provisioned infrastructure section.

You have reviewed the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.x Tested Integrations page.

You have reviewed the infrastructure requirements detailed in the Requirements for a cluster with user-provisioned infrastructure section.


If you are using DHCP to provide the IP networking configuration to your cluster nodes, configure your DHCP service.

Ensure that your network infrastructure provides the required network connectivity between the cluster components. See the Networking requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure section for details about the requirements.

Configure your firewall to enable the ports required for the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster components to communicate. See Networking requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure section for details about the ports that are required.

Setup the required DNS infrastructure for your cluster.

Validate your DNS configuration.

Provision the required API and application ingress load balancing infrastructure. See the Load balancing requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure section for more information about the requirements.


Some load balancing solutions require the DNS name resolution for the cluster nodes to be in place before the load balancing is initialized.
Validating DNS resolution for user-provisioned infrastructure
You can validate your DNS configuration before installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on user-provisioned infrastructure.

The validation steps detailed in this section must succeed before you install your cluster.
You have configured the required DNS records for your user-provisioned infrastructure.


From your installation node, run DNS lookups against the record names of the Kubernetes API, the wildcard routes, and the cluster nodes. Validate that the IP addresses contained in the responses correspond to the correct components.

From your installation node, run reverse DNS lookups against the IP addresses of the load balancer and the cluster nodes. Validate that the record names contained in the responses correspond to the correct components.
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access
During an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation, you can provide an SSH public key to the installation program. The key is passed to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes through their Ignition config files and is used to authenticate SSH access to the nodes. The key is added to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys list for the core user on each node, which enables password-less authentication.

After the key is passed to the nodes, you can use the key pair to SSH in to the RHCOS nodes as the user core. To access the nodes through SSH, the private key identity must be managed by SSH for your local user.

If you want to SSH in to your cluster nodes to perform installation debugging or disaster recovery, you must provide the SSH public key during the installation process. The ./openshift-install gather command also requires the SSH public key to be in place on the cluster nodes.

Do not skip this procedure in production environments, where disaster recovery and debugging is required.
You must use a local key, not one that you configured with platform-specific approaches such as AWS key pairs.
If you do not have an existing SSH key pair on your local machine to use for authentication onto your cluster nodes, create one. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command:

View the public SSH key:

Add the SSH private key identity to the SSH agent for your local user, if it has not already been added. SSH agent management of the key is required for password-less SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes, or if you want to use the ./openshift-install gather command.

Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:


When you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, provide the SSH public key to the installation program.
If you install a cluster on infrastructure that you provision, you must provide the key to the installation program.
Obtaining the installation program
Before you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, download the installation file on  the host you are using for installation.

You have a computer that runs Linux or macOS, with 500 MB of local disk space.


Access the Infrastructure Provider page on the OpenShift Cluster Manager site. If you have a Red Hat account, log in with your credentials. If you do not, create an account.

Select your infrastructure provider.

Navigate to the page for your installation type, download the installation program that corresponds with your host operating system and architecture, and place the file in the directory where you will store the installation configuration files.

Extract the installation program. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux
operating system, run the following command:

Download your installation https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.
Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to interact with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15. Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Manually creating the installation configuration file
Installing the cluster requires that you manually create the installation configuration file.

You have an SSH public key on your local machine to provide to the installation program. The key will be used for SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes for debugging and disaster recovery.

You have obtained the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your
cluster.


Create an installation directory to store your required installation assets in:

Customize the sample install-config.yaml file template that is provided and save
it in the <installation_directory>.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use it to install multiple clusters.


Sample install-config.yaml file for other platforms
You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com 1
compute: 2
- hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: worker
  replicas: 0 4
controlPlane: 2
  hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: master
  replicas: 3 5
metadata:
  name: test 6
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14 7
    hostPrefix: 23 8
  networkType: OVNKubernetes 9
  serviceNetwork: 10
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  none: {} 11
fips: false 12
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}' 13
sshKey: 'ssh-ed25519 AAAA...' 14
The base domain of the cluster. All DNS records must be sub-domains of this base and include the cluster name.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the first line of the controlPlane section must not. Only one control plane pool is used.

Specifies whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading (SMT), or hyperthreading. By default, SMT is enabled to increase the performance of the cores in your machines. You can disable it by setting the parameter value to Disabled. If you disable SMT, you must disable it in all cluster machines; this includes both control plane and compute machines.

You must set this value to 0 when you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on user-provisioned infrastructure. In installer-provisioned installations, the parameter controls the number of compute machines that the cluster creates and manages for you. In user-provisioned installations, you must manually deploy the compute machines before you finish installing the cluster.

The number of control plane machines that you add to the cluster. Because the cluster uses these values as the number of etcd endpoints in the cluster, the value must match the number of control plane machines that you deploy.

The cluster name that you specified in your DNS records.

A block of IP addresses from which pod IP addresses are allocated. This block must not overlap with existing physical networks. These IP addresses are used for the pod network. If you need to access the pods from an external network, you must configure load balancers and routers to manage the traffic.

The subnet prefix length to assign to each individual node. For example, if hostPrefix is set to 23, then each node is assigned a /23 subnet out of the given cidr, which allows for 510 (2^(32 - 23) - 2) pod IP addresses. If you are required to provide access to nodes from an external network, configure load balancers and routers to manage the traffic.

The cluster network plugin to install. The default value OVNKubernetes is the only supported value.

The IP address pool to use for service IP addresses. You can enter only one IP address pool. This block must not overlap with existing physical networks. If you need to access the services from an external network, configure load balancers and routers to manage the traffic.

You must set the platform to none. You cannot provide additional platform configuration variables for
your platform.

Whether to enable or disable FIPS mode. By default, FIPS mode is not enabled. If FIPS mode is enabled, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines that Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform runs on bypass the default Kubernetes cryptography suite and use the cryptography modules that are provided with RHCOS instead.

The https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.

The SSH public key for the core user in Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS).
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Configuring a three-node cluster
Optionally, you can deploy zero compute machines in a bare metal cluster that consists of three control plane machines only. This provides smaller, more resource efficient clusters for cluster administrators and developers to use for testing, development, and production.

In three-node Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform environments, the three control plane machines are schedulable, which means that your application workloads are scheduled to run on them.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.


Ensure that the number of compute replicas is set to 0 in your install-config.yaml file, as shown in the following compute stanza:


For three-node cluster installations, follow these next steps:

If you are deploying a three-node cluster with zero compute nodes, the Ingress Controller pods run on the control plane nodes. In three-node cluster deployments, you must configure your application ingress load balancer to route HTTP and HTTPS traffic to the control plane nodes. See the Load balancing requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure section for more information.

When you create the Kubernetes manifest files in the following procedure, ensure that the mastersSchedulable parameter in the <installation_directory>/manifests/cluster-scheduler-02-config.yml file is set to true. This enables your application workloads to run on the control plane nodes.

Do not deploy any compute nodes when you create the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines.
Creating the Kubernetes manifest and Ignition config files
Because you must modify some cluster definition files and manually start the cluster machines, you must generate the Kubernetes manifest and Ignition config files that the cluster needs to configure the machines.

The installation configuration file transforms into the Kubernetes manifests. The manifests wrap into the Ignition configuration files, which are later used to configure the cluster machines.

The Ignition config files that the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
You obtained the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program.

You created the install-config.yaml installation configuration file.


Change to the directory that contains the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and generate the Kubernetes manifests for the cluster:

Check that the mastersSchedulable parameter in the <installation_directory>/manifests/cluster-scheduler-02-config.yml Kubernetes manifest file is set to false. This setting prevents pods from being scheduled on the control plane machines:

To create the Ignition configuration files, run the following command from the directory that contains the installation program:
Installing RHCOS and starting the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform bootstrap process
To install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on bare metal infrastructure that you provision, you must install Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) on the machines. When you install RHCOS, you must provide the Ignition config file that was generated by the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program for the type of machine you are installing. If you have configured suitable networking, DNS, and load balancing infrastructure, the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform bootstrap process begins automatically after the RHCOS machines have rebooted.

To install RHCOS on the machines, follow either the steps to use an ISO image or network PXE booting.

The compute node deployment steps included in this installation document are RHCOS-specific. If you choose instead to deploy RHEL-based compute nodes, you take responsibility for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance, including performing system updates, applying patches, and completing all other required tasks. Only RHEL 8 compute machines are supported.
You can configure RHCOS during ISO and PXE installations by using the following methods:

Kernel arguments: You can use kernel arguments to provide installation-specific information. For example, you can specify the locations of the RHCOS installation files that you uploaded to your HTTP server and the location of the Ignition config file for the type of node you are installing. For a PXE installation, you can use the APPEND parameter to pass the arguments to the kernel of the live installer. For an ISO installation, you can interrupt the live installation boot process to add the kernel arguments. In both installation cases, you can use special coreos.inst.* arguments to direct the live installer, as well as standard installation boot arguments for turning standard kernel services on or off.

Ignition configs: Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Ignition config files (*.ign) are specific to the type of node you are installing. You pass the location of a bootstrap, control plane, or compute node Ignition config file during the RHCOS installation so that it takes effect on first boot. In special cases, you can create a separate, limited Ignition config to pass to the live system. That Ignition config could do a certain set of tasks, such as reporting success to a provisioning system after completing installation. This special Ignition config is consumed by the coreos-installer to be applied on first boot of the installed system. Do not provide the standard control plane and compute node Ignition configs to the live ISO directly.

coreos-installer: You can boot the live ISO installer to a shell prompt, which allows you to prepare the permanent system in a variety of ways before first boot. In particular, you can run the coreos-installer command to identify various artifacts to include, work with disk partitions, and set up networking. In some cases, you can configure features on the live system and copy them to the installed system.


Whether to use an ISO or PXE install depends on your situation. A PXE install requires an available DHCP service and more preparation, but can make the installation process more automated. An ISO install is a more manual process and can be inconvenient if you are setting up more than a few machines.

As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.6, the RHCOS ISO and other installation artifacts provide support for installation on disks with 4K sectors.
Installing RHCOS by using an ISO image
You can use an ISO image to install RHCOS on the machines.

You have created the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You have configured suitable network, DNS and load balancing infrastructure.

You have an HTTP server that can be accessed from your computer, and from the machines that you create.

You have reviewed the Advanced RHCOS installation configuration section for different ways to configure features, such as networking and disk partitioning.


Obtain the SHA512 digest for each of your Ignition config files. For example, you can use the following on a system running Linux to get the SHA512 digest for your bootstrap.ign Ignition config file:

Upload the bootstrap, control plane, and compute node Ignition config files that the installation program created to your HTTP server. Note the URLs of these files.

From the installation host, validate that the Ignition config files are available on the URLs. The following example gets the Ignition config file for the bootstrap node:

Although it is possible to obtain the RHCOS images that are required for your preferred method of installing operating system instances from the
page, the recommended way to obtain the correct version of your RHCOS images are from the output of openshift-install command:

Use the ISO to start the RHCOS installation. Use one of the following installation options:

Boot the RHCOS ISO image without specifying any options or interrupting the live boot sequence. Wait for the installer to boot into a shell prompt in the RHCOS live environment.

Run the coreos-installer command and specify the options that meet your installation requirements. At a minimum, you must specify the URL that points to the Ignition config file for the node type, and the device that you are installing to:

Monitor the progress of the RHCOS installation on the console of the machine.

After RHCOS installs, you must reboot the system. During the system reboot, it applies the Ignition config file that you specified.

Check the console output to verify that Ignition ran.

Continue to create the other machines for your cluster.
Installing RHCOS by using PXE or iPXE booting
You can use PXE or iPXE booting to install RHCOS on the machines.

You have created the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You have configured suitable network, DNS and load balancing infrastructure.

You have configured suitable PXE or iPXE infrastructure.

You have an HTTP server that can be accessed from your computer, and from the machines that you create.

You have reviewed the Advanced RHCOS installation configuration section for different ways to configure features, such as networking and disk partitioning.


Upload the bootstrap, control plane, and compute node Ignition config files that the
installation program created to your HTTP server. Note the URLs of these files.

From the installation host, validate that the Ignition config files are available on the URLs. The following example gets the Ignition config file for the bootstrap node:

Although it is possible to obtain the RHCOS kernel, initramfs and rootfs
files that are required for your preferred method of installing operating system instances from the
page, the recommended way to obtain the correct version of your RHCOS files are
from the output of openshift-install command:

Upload the rootfs, kernel, and initramfs files
to your HTTP server.

Configure the network boot infrastructure so that the machines boot from their
local disks after RHCOS is installed on them.

Configure PXE or iPXE installation for the RHCOS images and begin the installation.

Monitor the progress of the RHCOS installation on the console of the machine.

After RHCOS installs, the system reboots. During reboot, the system applies the Ignition config file that you specified.

Check the console output to verify that Ignition ran.

Continue to create the machines for your cluster.
Advanced RHCOS installation configuration
A key benefit for manually provisioning the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is to be able to do configuration that is not available through default Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation methods. This section describes some of the configurations that you can do using techniques that include:

Passing kernel arguments to the live installer

Running coreos-installer manually from the live system

Customizing a live ISO or PXE boot image


The advanced configuration topics for manual Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) installations detailed in this section relate to disk partitioning, networking, and using Ignition configs in different ways.

Using advanced networking options for PXE and ISO installations
Networking for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform nodes uses DHCP by default to gather all necessary configuration settings. To set up static IP addresses or configure special settings, such as bonding, you can do one of the following:

Pass special kernel parameters when you boot the live installer.

Use a machine config to copy networking files to the installed system.

Configure networking from a live installer shell prompt, then copy those settings to the installed system so that they take effect when the installed system first boots.


To configure a PXE or iPXE installation, use one of the following options:

See the "Advanced RHCOS installation reference" tables.

Use a machine config to copy networking files to the installed system.


To configure an ISO installation, use the following procedure.

Boot the ISO installer.

From the live system shell prompt, configure networking for the live
system using available RHEL tools, such as nmcli or nmtui.

Run the coreos-installer command to install the system, adding the --copy-network option to copy networking configuration. For example:

Reboot into the installed system.


See Getting started with nmcli and Getting started with nmtui in the RHEL 8 documentation for more information about the nmcli and nmtui tools.
Disk partitioning
Disk partitions are created on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster nodes during the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) installation. Each RHCOS node of a particular architecture uses the same partition layout, unless you override the default partitioning configuration. During the RHCOS installation, the size of the root file system is increased to use any remaining available space on the target device.

The use of a custom partition scheme on your node might result in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform not monitoring or alerting on some node partitions. If you override the default partitioning, see Understanding OpenShift File System Monitoring (eviction conditions) for more information about how Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform monitors your host file systems.
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform monitors the following two filesystem identifiers:

nodefs, which is the filesystem that contains /var/lib/kubelet

imagefs, which is the filesystem that contains /var/lib/containers


For the default partition scheme, nodefs and imagefs monitor the same root filesystem, /.

To override the default partitioning when installing RHCOS on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster node, you must create separate partitions. Consider a situation where you want to add a separate storage partition for your containers and container images. For example, by mounting /var/lib/containers in a separate partition, the kubelet separately monitors /var/lib/containers as the imagefs directory and the root file system as the nodefs directory.

If you have resized your disk size to host a larger file system, consider creating a separate /var/lib/containers partition. Consider resizing a disk that has an xfs format to reduce CPU time issues caused by a high number of allocation groups.
Creating a separate /var partition
In general, you should use the default disk partitioning that is created during the RHCOS installation. However, there are cases where you might want to create a separate partition for a directory that you expect to grow.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform supports the addition of a single partition to attach storage to either the /var directory or a subdirectory of /var. For example:

/var/lib/containers: Holds container-related content that can grow
as more images and containers are added to a system.

/var/lib/etcd: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as performance optimization of etcd storage.

/var: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as auditing.


Storing the contents of a /var directory separately makes it easier to grow storage for those areas as needed and reinstall Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform at a later date and keep that data intact. With this method, you will not have to pull all your containers again, nor will you have to copy massive log files when you update systems.

The use of a separate partition for the /var directory or a subdirectory of /var also prevents data growth in the partitioned directory from filling up the root file system.

The following procedure sets up a separate /var partition by adding a machine config manifest that is wrapped into the Ignition config file for a node type during the preparation phase of an installation.

On your installation host, change to the directory that contains the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and generate the Kubernetes manifests for the cluster:

Create a Butane config that configures the additional partition. For example, name the file $HOME/clusterconfig/98-var-partition.bu, change the disk device name to the name of the storage device on the worker systems, and set the storage size as appropriate. This example places the /var directory on a separate partition:

Create a manifest from the Butane config and save it to the clusterconfig/openshift directory. For example, run the following command:

Create the Ignition config files:


You can apply the custom disk partitioning by referencing the Ignition config files during the RHCOS installations.
Retaining existing partitions
For an ISO installation, you can add options to the coreos-installer command that cause the installer to maintain one or more existing partitions. For a PXE installation, you can add coreos.inst.* options to the APPEND parameter to preserve partitions.

Saved partitions might be data partitions from an existing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform system. You can identify the disk partitions you want to keep either by partition label or by number.

If you save existing partitions, and those partitions do not leave enough space for RHCOS, the installation will fail without damaging the saved partitions.
This example preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with data (data*):

# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partlabel 'data*' /dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
The following example illustrates running the coreos-installer in a way that preserves the sixth (6) partition on the disk:

# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partindex 6 /dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
This example preserves partitions 5 and higher:

# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign
        --save-partindex 5- /dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
In the previous examples where partition saving is used, coreos-installer recreates the partition immediately.

This APPEND option preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with 'data' ('data*'):

coreos.inst.save_partlabel=data*
This APPEND option preserves partitions 5 and higher:

coreos.inst.save_partindex=5-
This APPEND option preserves partition 6:

coreos.inst.save_partindex=6
Identifying Ignition configs
When doing an RHCOS manual installation, there are two types of Ignition configs that you can provide, with different reasons for providing each one:

Permanent install Ignition config: Every manual RHCOS installation
needs to pass one of the Ignition config files generated by openshift-installer,
such as bootstrap.ign, master.ign and worker.ign, to carry out the
installation.

Live install Ignition config: This type can be created by using the coreos-installer customize subcommand and its various options. With this method, the Ignition config passes to the live install medium, runs immediately upon booting, and performs setup tasks before or after the RHCOS system installs to disk. This method should only be used for performing tasks that must be done once and not applied again later, such as with advanced partitioning that cannot be done using a machine config.
Advanced RHCOS installation reference
This section illustrates the networking configuration and other advanced options that allow you to modify the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) manual installation process. The following tables describe the kernel arguments and command-line options you can use with the RHCOS live installer and the coreos-installer command.

Networking and bonding options for ISO installations
If you install RHCOS from an ISO image, you can add kernel arguments manually when you boot the image to configure networking for a node. If no networking arguments are specified, DHCP is activated in the initramfs when RHCOS detects that networking is required to fetch the Ignition config file.

When adding networking arguments manually, you must also add the rd.neednet=1 kernel argument to bring the network up in the initramfs.
The following information provides examples for configuring networking and bonding on your RHCOS nodes for ISO installations. The examples describe how to use the ip=, nameserver=, and bond= kernel arguments.

Ordering is important when adding the kernel arguments: ip=, nameserver=, and then bond=.
The networking options are passed to the dracut tool during system boot. For more information about the networking options supported by dracut, see the dracut.cmdline manual page.

The following examples are the networking options for ISO installation.


To configure an IP address, either use DHCP (ip=dhcp) or set an individual static IP address (ip=<host_ip>). If setting a static IP, you must then identify the DNS server IP address (nameserver=<dns_ip>) on each node. The following example sets:

The node's IP address to 10.10.10.2

The gateway address to 10.10.10.254

The netmask to 255.255.255.0

The hostname to core0.example.com

The DNS server address to 4.4.4.41

The auto-configuration value to none. No auto-configuration is required when IP networking is configured statically.


ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
nameserver=4.4.4.41
When you use DHCP to configure IP addressing for the RHCOS machines, the machines also obtain the DNS server information through DHCP. For DHCP-based deployments, you can define the DNS server address that is used by the RHCOS nodes through your DHCP server configuration.

You can configure an IP address without assigning a static hostname. If a static hostname is not set by the user, it will be picked up and automatically set by a reverse DNS lookup. To configure an IP address without a static hostname refer to the following example:

The node's IP address to 10.10.10.2

The gateway address to 10.10.10.254

The netmask to 255.255.255.0

The DNS server address to 4.4.4.41

The auto-configuration value to none. No auto-configuration is required when IP networking is configured statically.


ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0::enp1s0:none
nameserver=4.4.4.41

You can specify multiple network interfaces by setting multiple ip= entries.

ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
ip=10.10.10.3::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0:none

Optional: You can configure routes to additional networks by setting an rd.route= value.

When you configure one or multiple networks, one default gateway is required. If the additional network gateway is different from the primary network gateway, the default gateway must be the primary network gateway.
Run the following command to configure the default gateway:

Enter the following command to configure the route for the additional network:



You can disable DHCP on a single interface, such as when there are two or more network interfaces and only one interface is being used. In the example, the enp1s0 interface has a static networking configuration and DHCP is disabled for enp2s0, which is not used:

ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
ip=::::core0.example.com:enp2s0:none

You can combine DHCP and static IP configurations on systems with multiple network interfaces, for example:

ip=enp1s0:dhcp
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0:none

Optional: You can configure VLANs on individual interfaces by using the vlan= parameter.

To configure a VLAN on a network interface and use a static IP address, run the following command:

To configure a VLAN on a network interface and to use DHCP, run the following command:



You can provide multiple DNS servers by adding a nameserver= entry for each server, for example:

nameserver=1.1.1.1
nameserver=8.8.8.8

Optional: You can bond multiple network interfaces to a single interface by using the bond= option. Refer to the following examples:

The syntax for configuring a bonded interface is: bond=<name>[:<network_interfaces>][:options]

When you create a bonded interface using bond=, you must specify how the IP address is assigned and other
information for the bonded interface.



Support for Day 1 operations associated with enabling NIC partitioning for SR-IOV devices is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Optional: You can bond multiple SR-IOV network interfaces to a dual port NIC interface by using the bond= option.

On each node, you must perform the following tasks:

Create the SR-IOV virtual functions (VFs) following the guidance in Managing SR-IOV devices. Follow the procedure in the "Attaching SR-IOV networking devices to virtual machines" section.

Create the bond, attach the desired VFs to the bond and set the bond link state up following the guidance in Configuring network bonding. Follow any of the described procedures to create the bond.


The following examples illustrate the syntax you must use:

The syntax for configuring a bonded interface is bond=<name>[:<network_interfaces>][:options].

When you create a bonded interface using bond=, you must specify how the IP address is assigned and other information for the bonded interface.



Optional: You can use a network teaming as an alternative to bonding by using the team= parameter:

The syntax for configuring a team interface is: team=name[:network_interfaces]


Teaming is planned to be deprecated when RHCOS switches to an upcoming version of RHEL. For more information, see this Red Hat Knowledgebase Article.
Use the following example to configure a network team:

team=team0:em1,em2
ip=team0:dhcp
coreos-installer options for ISO and PXE installations
You can install RHCOS by running coreos-installer install <options> <device> at the command prompt, after booting into the RHCOS live environment from an ISO image.

The following table shows the subcommands, options, and arguments you can pass to the coreos-installer command.
coreos.inst boot options for ISO or PXE installations
You can automatically invoke coreos-installer options at boot time by passing coreos.inst boot arguments to the RHCOS live installer. These are provided in addition to the standard boot arguments.

For ISO installations, the coreos.inst options can be added by interrupting the automatic boot at the bootloader menu. You can interrupt the automatic boot by pressing TAB while the RHEL CoreOS (Live) menu option is highlighted.

For PXE or iPXE installations, the coreos.inst options must be added to the APPEND line before the RHCOS live installer is booted.


The following table shows the RHCOS live installer coreos.inst boot options for ISO and PXE installations.
Waiting for the bootstrap process to complete
The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform bootstrap process begins after the cluster nodes first boot into the persistent RHCOS environment that has been installed to disk. The configuration information provided through the Ignition config files is used to initialize the bootstrap process and install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on the machines. You must wait for the bootstrap process to complete.

You have created the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You have configured suitable network, DNS and load balancing infrastructure.

You have obtained the installation program and generated the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You installed RHCOS on your cluster machines and provided the Ignition config files that the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program generated.

Your machines have direct internet access or have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available.


Monitor the bootstrap process:

After the bootstrap process is complete, remove the bootstrap machine from the
load balancer.
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation.

You deployed an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.
Initial Operator configuration
After the control plane initializes, you must immediately configure some Operators so that they all become available.

Your control plane has initialized.


Watch the cluster components come online:

Configure the Operators that are not available.


Disabling the default OperatorHub catalog sources
Operator catalogs that source content provided by Red Hat and community projects are configured for OperatorHub by default during an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation. In a restricted network environment, you must disable the default catalogs as a cluster administrator.

Disable the sources for the default catalogs by adding disableAllDefaultSources: true to the OperatorHub object:


Alternatively, you can use the web console to manage catalog sources. From the Administration -> Cluster Settings -> Configuration -> OperatorHub page, click the Sources tab, where you can create, update, delete, disable, and enable individual sources.
Image registry removed during installation
On platforms that do not provide shareable object storage, the OpenShift Image Registry Operator bootstraps itself as Removed. This allows openshift-installer to complete installations on these platform types.

After installation, you must edit the Image Registry Operator configuration to switch the managementState from Removed to Managed.
Image registry storage configuration
The Image Registry Operator is not initially available for platforms that do not provide default storage. After installation, you must configure your registry to use storage so that the Registry Operator is made available.

Instructions are shown for configuring a persistent volume, which is required for production clusters. Where applicable, instructions are shown for configuring an empty directory as the storage location, which is available for only non-production clusters.

Additional instructions are provided for allowing the image registry to use block storage types by using the Recreate rollout strategy during upgrades.

Configuring registry storage for bare metal and other manual installations
As a cluster administrator, following installation you must configure your registry to use storage.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have a cluster
that uses manually-provisioned Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes, such as bare metal.

You have provisioned persistent storage for your cluster, such as Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.

Must have 100Gi capacity.


To configure your registry to use storage, change the spec.storage.pvc in
the configs.imageregistry/cluster resource.

Verify that you do not have a registry pod:

Check the registry configuration:

Check the clusteroperator status:

Ensure that your registry is set to managed to enable building and pushing of images.
Configuring storage for the image registry in non-production clusters
You must configure storage for the Image Registry Operator. For non-production clusters, you can set the image registry to an empty directory. If you do so, all images are lost if you restart the registry.

To set the image registry storage to an empty directory:
Configuring block registry storage for bare metal
To allow the image registry to use block storage types during upgrades as a cluster administrator, you can use the Recreate rollout strategy.

Block storage volumes, or block persistent volumes, are supported but not recommended for use with the image registry on production clusters. An installation where the registry is configured on block storage is not highly available because the registry cannot have more than one replica.

If you choose to use a block storage volume with the image registry, you must use a filesystem persistent volume claim (PVC).
Enter the following command to set the image registry storage as a block storage type, patch the registry so that it uses the Recreate rollout strategy, and runs with only one (1) replica:

Provision the PV for the block storage device, and create a PVC for that volume. The requested block volume uses the ReadWriteOnce (RWO) access mode.

Enter the following command to edit the registry configuration so that it references the correct PVC:
Completing installation on user-provisioned infrastructure
After you complete the Operator configuration, you can finish installing the cluster on infrastructure that you provide.

Your control plane has initialized.

You have completed the initial Operator configuration.


Confirm that all the cluster components are online with the following command:

Confirm that the Kubernetes API server is communicating with the pods.

For an installation with Fibre Channel Protocol (FCP), additional steps are required to enable multipathing. Do not enable multipathing during installation.
Telemetry access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

After you confirm that your https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console] inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

See About remote health monitoring for more information about the Telemetry service
Next steps
Customize your cluster.

If necessary, you can
opt out of remote health reporting.

Set up your registry and configure registry storage.