Creating a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE with z/VM

To create a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on IBM Z(R) and IBM(R) LinuxONE (s390x) with z/VM, you must have an existing single-architecture x86_64 cluster. You can then add s390x compute machines to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

Before you can add s390x nodes to your cluster, you must upgrade your cluster to one that uses the multi-architecture payload. For more information on migrating to the multi-architecture payload, see Migrating to a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines.

The following procedures explain how to create a RHCOS compute machine using a z/VM instance. This will allow you to add s390x nodes to your cluster and deploy a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines.

To create an IBM Z(R) or IBM(R) LinuxONE (s390x) cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on x86_64, follow the instructions for Installing a cluster on IBM Z(R) and IBM(R) LinuxONE. You can then add x86_64 compute machines as described in Creating a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on bare metal, IBM Power, or IBM Z.
Verifying cluster compatibility
Before you can start adding compute nodes of different architectures to your cluster, you must verify that your cluster is multi-architecture compatible.

You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc)


You can check that your cluster uses the architecture payload by running the following command:


If you see the following output, then your cluster is using the multi-architecture payload:

If you see the following output, then your cluster is not using the multi-architecture payload:
Creating RHCOS machines on IBM Z with z/VM
You can create more Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines running on IBM Z(R) with z/VM and attach them to your existing cluster.

You have a domain name server (DNS) that can perform hostname and reverse lookup for the nodes.

You have an HTTP or HTTPS server running on your provisioning machine that is accessible to the machines you create.


Disable UDP aggregation.

Extract the Ignition config file from the cluster by running the following command:

Upload the worker.ign Ignition config file you exported from your cluster to your HTTP server. Note the URL of this file.

You can validate that the Ignition file is available on the URL. The following example gets the Ignition config file for the compute node:

Download the RHEL live kernel, initramfs, and rootfs files by running the following commands:

Move the downloaded RHEL live kernel, initramfs, and rootfs files to an HTTP or HTTPS server that is accessible from the z/VM guest you want to add.

Create a parameter file for the z/VM guest. The following parameters are specific for the virtual machine:

Transfer the initramfs, kernel, parameter files, and RHCOS images to z/VM, for example, by using FTP. For details about how to transfer the files with FTP and boot from the virtual reader, see Installing under Z/VM.

Punch the files to the virtual reader of the z/VM guest virtual machine.

Log in to CMS on the bootstrap machine.

IPL the bootstrap machine from the reader by running the following command:
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.