Managing your cluster with multi-architecture compute machines

Scheduling workloads on clusters with multi-architecture compute machines
Deploying a workload on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures requires attention and monitoring of your cluster. There might be further actions you need to take in order to successfully place pods in the nodes of your cluster.

For more detailed information on node affinity, scheduling, taints and tolerlations, see the following documentatinon:

Controlling pod placement using node taints.

Controlling pod placement on nodes using node affinity

Controlling pod placement using the scheduler


Sample multi-architecture node workload deployments
Before you schedule workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures, consider the following use cases:


Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node
You can allow a workload to be scheduled on only a set of nodes with architectures supported by its images, you can set the spec.affinity.nodeAffinity field in your pod's template specification.
Tainting every node for a specific architecture
You can taint a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with its architecture to be scheduled on that node. In the case where your cluster is using a MachineSet object, you can add parameters to the .spec.template.spec.taints field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures.
Creating a default toleration
You can annotate a namespace so all of the workloads get the same default toleration by running the following command:
Tolerating architecture taints in workloads
On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in the pod's specification.
Using node affinity with taints and tolerations
When a scheduler computes the set of nodes to schedule a pod, tolerations can broaden the set while node affinity restricts the set. If you set a taint to the nodes of a specific architecture, the following example toleration is required for scheduling pods.


Modifying a compute machine set
Enabling 64k pages on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) kernel
You can enable the 64k memory page in the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) kernel on the 64-bit ARM compute machines in your cluster. The 64k page size kernel specification can be used for large GPU or high memory workloads. This is done using the Machine Config Operator (MCO) which uses a machine config pool to update the kernel. To enable 64k page sizes, you must dedicate a machine config pool for ARM64 to enable on the kernel.

Using 64k pages is exclusive to 64-bit ARM architecture compute nodes or clusters installed on 64-bit ARM machines. If you configure the 64k pages kernel on a machine config pool using 64-bit x86 machines, the machine config pool and MCO will degrade.
You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You created a cluster with compute nodes of different architecture on one of the supported platforms.


Label the nodes where you want to run the 64k page size kernel:

Create a machine config pool that contains the worker role that uses the ARM64 architecture and the worker-64k-pages role:

Create a machine config on your compute node to enable 64k-pages with the 64k-pages parameter.


To view your new worker-64k-pages machine config pool, run the following command:
Importing manifest lists in image streams on your multi-architecture compute machines
On an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} cluster with multi-architecture compute machines, the image streams in the cluster do not import manifest lists automatically. You must manually change the default importMode option to the PreserveOriginal option in order to import the manifest list.

You installed the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" CLI (oc).


The following example command shows how to patch the ImageStream cli-artifacts so that the cli-artifacts:latest image stream tag is imported as a manifest list.


You can check that the manifest lists imported properly by inspecting the image stream tag. The following command will list the individual architecture manifests for a particular tag.