Backing up applications on AWS STS using OADP

You install the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Amazon Web Services (AWS) by installing the OADP Operator. The Operator installs Velero 1.12.

Starting from OADP 1.0.4, all OADP 1.0.z versions can only be used as a dependency of the MTC Operator and are not available as a standalone Operator.
You configure AWS for Velero, create a default Secret, and then install the Data Protection Application. For more details, see Installing the OADP Operator.

To install the OADP Operator in a restricted network environment, you must first disable the default OperatorHub sources and mirror the Operator catalog. See Using Operator Lifecycle Manager on restricted networks for details.

You can install OADP on an AWS Security Token Service (STS) (AWS STS) cluster manually. Amazon AWS provides AWS STS as a web service that enables you to request temporary, limited-privilege credentials for users. You use STS to provide trusted users with temporary access to resources via API calls, your AWS console, or the AWS command line interface (CLI).

Before installing OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP), you must set up role and policy credentials for OADP so that it can use the Amazon Web Services API.

This process is performed in the following two stages:

Prepare AWS credentials.

Install the OADP Operator and give it an IAM role.
Preparing AWS STS credentials for OADP
An Amazon Web Services account must be prepared and configured to accept an OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) installation. Prepare the AWS credentials by using the following procedure.

Define the cluster_name environment variable by running the following command:

Retrieve all of the details of the cluster such as the AWS_ACCOUNT_ID, OIDC_ENDPOINT by running the following command:

Create a temporary directory to store all of the files by running the following command:

Display all of the gathered details by running the following command:

On the AWS account, create an IAM policy to allow access to AWS S3:

Create an IAM role trust policy for the cluster:

Attach the IAM policy to the IAM role by running the following command:


Setting Velero CPU and memory resource allocations
You set the CPU and memory resource allocations for the Velero pod by editing the  DataProtectionApplication custom resource (CR) manifest.

You must have the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) Operator installed.


Edit the values in the spec.configuration.velero.podConfig.ResourceAllocations block of the DataProtectionApplication CR manifest, as in the following example:


Kopia is an option in OADP 1.3 and later releases. You can use Kopia for file system backups, and Kopia is your only option for Data Mover cases with the built-in Data Mover.

Kopia is more resource intensive than Restic, and you might need to adjust the CPU and memory requirements accordingly.
Installing the OADP Operator and providing the IAM role
AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) is a global web service that provides short-term credentials for IAM or federated users. This document describes how to install OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) on an AWS STS cluster manually.

Restic and Kopia are not supported in the OADP AWS STS environment. Verify that the Restic and Kopia node agent is disabled. For backing up volumes, OADP on AWS STS supports only native snapshots and Container Storage Interface (CSI) snapshots.

In an AWS cluster that uses STS authentication, restoring backed-up data in a different AWS region is not supported.

The Data Mover feature is not currently supported in AWS STS clusters. You can use native AWS S3 tools for moving data.
An "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" AWS STS cluster with the required access and tokens. For instructions, see the previous procedure Preparing AWS credentials for OADP. If you plan to use two different clusters for backing up and restoring, you must prepare AWS credentials, including ROLE_ARN, for each cluster.


Create an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" secret from your AWS token file by entering the following commands:

Install the OADP Operator:

Create AWS cloud storage using your AWS credentials by entering the following command:

Check your application's storage default storage class by entering the following command:

Get the storage class by running the following command:

Create the DataProtectionApplication resource to configure the connection to the storage where the backups and volume snapshots are stored:


If you are using CSI or non-CSI volumes, deploy a Data Protection Application by entering the following command:


If you use OADP 1.2, replace this configuration:

nodeAgent:
  enable: false
  uploaderType: restic
with the following configuration:

restic:
  enable: false
If you want to use two different clusters for backing up and restoring, the two clusters must have the same AWS S3 storage names in both the cloud storage CR and the OADP DataProtectionApplication configuration.

Installing from OperatorHub using the web console

Backing up applications
Backing up workload on OADP AWS STS, with an optional cleanup
Performing a backup with OADP and AWS STS
The following example hello-world application has no persistent volumes (PVs) attached. Perform a backup with OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Amazon Web Services (AWS) (AWS STS).

Either Data Protection Application (DPA) configuration will work.

Create a workload to back up by running the following commands:

Expose the route by running the following command:

Check that the application is working by running the following command:

Back up the workload by running the following command:

Wait until the backup has completed and then run the following command:

Delete the demo workload by running the following command:

Restore the workload from the backup by running the following command:

Wait for the Restore to finish by running the following command:

Check that the workload is restored by running the following command:

Check the JSONPath by running the following command:


For troubleshooting tips, see the OADP team’s troubleshooting documentation.
Cleaning up a cluster after a backup with OADP and AWS STS
If you need to uninstall the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) Operator together with the backups and the S3 bucket from this example, follow these instructions.

Delete the workload by running the following command:

Delete the Data Protection Application (DPA) by running the following command:

Delete the cloud storage by running the following command:

If the Operator is no longer required, remove it by running the following command:

Remove the namespace from the Operator by running the following command:

If the backup and restore resources are no longer required, remove them from the cluster by running the following command:

To delete backup, restore and remote objects in AWS S3, run the following command:

If you no longer need the Custom Resource Definitions (CRD), remove them from the cluster by running the following command:

Delete the AWS S3 bucket by running the following commands:

Detach the policy from the role by running the following command:

Delete the role by running the following command: