Configuring project creation

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", projects are used to group and isolate related objects. When a request is made to create a new project using the web console or oc new-project command, an endpoint in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" is used to provision the project according to a template, which can be customized.

As a cluster administrator, you can allow and configure how developers and service accounts can create, or self-provision, their own projects.
About project creation
The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" API server automatically provisions new projects based on the project template that is identified by the projectRequestTemplate parameter in the cluster's project configuration resource. If the parameter is not defined, the API server creates a default template that creates a project with the requested name, and assigns the requesting user to the admin role for that project.

When a project request is submitted, the API substitutes the following parameters into the template:


Access to the API is granted to developers with the self-provisioner role and the self-provisioners cluster role binding. This role is available to all authenticated developers by default.
Modifying the template for new projects
As a cluster administrator, you can modify the default project template so that new projects are created using your custom requirements.

To create your own custom project template:

You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using an account with cluster-admin permissions.


Log in as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

Generate the default project template:

Use a text editor to modify the generated template.yaml file by adding
objects or modifying existing objects.

The project template must be created in the openshift-config namespace. Load
your modified template:

Edit the project configuration resource using the web console or CLI.

Update the spec section to include the projectRequestTemplate and name
parameters, and set the name of your uploaded project template. The default name
is project-request.

After you save your changes, create a new project to verify that your changes
were successfully applied.
Disabling project self-provisioning
You can prevent an authenticated user group from self-provisioning new projects.

Log in as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

View the self-provisioners cluster role binding usage by running the following command:

Remove the self-provisioner cluster role from the group system:authenticated:oauth.

Edit the self-provisioners cluster role binding to prevent automatic updates to the role. Automatic updates reset the cluster roles to the default state.

Log in as an authenticated user and verify that it can no longer self-provision a project:
Customizing the project request message
When a developer or a service account that is unable to self-provision projects makes a project creation request using the web console or CLI, the following error message is returned by default:

You may not request a new project via this API.
Cluster administrators can customize this message. Consider updating it to provide further instructions on how to request a new project specific to your organization. For example:

To request a project, contact your system administrator at
projectname@example.com.

To request a new project, fill out the project request form located at
https://internal.example.com/openshift-project-request.


To customize the project request message:

Edit the project configuration resource using the web console or CLI.

Update the spec section to include the projectRequestMessage parameter and
set the value to your custom message:

After you save your changes, attempt to create a new project as a developer or
service account that is unable to self-provision projects to verify that your
changes were successfully applied.