Working with projects

A project allows a community of users to organize and manage their content in isolation from other communities.

Projects starting with openshift- and kube- are default projects. These projects host cluster components that run as pods and other infrastructure components. As such, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not allow you to create projects starting with openshift- or kube- using the oc new-project command. Cluster administrators can create these projects using the oc adm new-project command.
Do not run workloads in or share access to default projects. Default projects are reserved for running core cluster components.

The following default projects are considered highly privileged: default, kube-public, kube-system, openshift, openshift-infra, openshift-node, and other system-created projects that have the openshift.io/run-level label set to 0 or 1. Functionality that relies on admission plugins, such as pod security admission, security context constraints, cluster resource quotas, and image reference resolution, does not work in highly privileged projects.
Creating a project
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the OpenShift CLI (oc) to create a project in your cluster.

Creating a project by using the web console
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console to create a project in your cluster.

Projects starting with openshift- and kube- are considered critical by "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". As such, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not allow you to create projects starting with openshift- using the web console.
Ensure that you have the appropriate roles and permissions to create projects, applications, and other workloads in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".


If you are using the Administrator perspective:

If you are using the Developer perspective:


Customizing the available cluster roles using the web console
Creating a project by using the CLI
If allowed by your cluster administrator, you can create a new project.

Projects starting with openshift- and kube- are considered critical by "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". As such, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not allow you to create Projects starting with openshift- or kube- using the oc new-project command. Cluster administrators can create these projects using the oc adm new-project command.
Run:


The number of projects you are allowed to create After your limit is reached, you might have to delete an existing project in order to create a new one.
Viewing a project
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the OpenShift CLI (oc) to view a project in your cluster.

Viewing a project by using the web console
You can view the projects that you have access to by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

If you are using the Administrator perspective:

If you are using the Developer perspective:
Viewing a project using the CLI
When viewing projects, you are restricted to seeing only the projects you have access to view based on the authorization policy.

To view a list of projects, run:

You can change from the current project to a different project for CLI
operations. The specified project is then used in all subsequent operations that
manipulate project-scoped content:
Providing access permissions to your project using the Developer perspective
You can use the Project view in the Developer perspective to grant or revoke access permissions to your project.

You have created a project.


To add users to your project and provide Admin, Edit, or View access to them:

In the Developer perspective, navigate to the Project page.

Select your project from the Project menu.

Select the Project Access tab.

Click Add access to add a new row of permissions to the default ones.

Enter the user name, click the Select a role drop-down list, and select an appropriate role.

Click Save to add the new permissions.


You can also use:

The Select a role drop-down list, to modify the access permissions of an existing user.

The Remove Access icon, to completely remove the access permissions of an existing user to the project.


Advanced role-based access control is managed in the Roles and Roles Binding views in the Administrator perspective.
Customizing the available cluster roles using the web console
In the Developer perspective of the web console, the Project -> Project access page enables a project administrator to grant roles to users in a project. By default, the available cluster roles that can be granted to users in a project are admin, edit, and view.

As a cluster administrator, you can define which cluster roles are available in the Project access page for all projects cluster-wide. You can specify the available roles by customizing the spec.customization.projectAccess.availableClusterRoles object in the Console configuration resource.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


In the Administrator perspective, navigate to Administration -> Cluster settings.

Click the Configuration tab.

From the Configuration resource list, select Console operator.openshift.io.

Navigate to the YAML tab to view and edit the YAML code.

In the YAML code under spec, customize the list of available cluster roles for project access. The following example specifies the default admin, edit, and view roles:

Click Save to save the changes to the Console configuration resource.


In the Developer perspective, navigate to the Project page.

Select a project from the Project menu.

Select the Project access tab.

Click the menu in the Role column and verify that the available roles match the configuration that you applied to the Console resource configuration.
Adding to a project
You can add items to your project by using the +Add page in the Developer perspective.

You have created a project.


In the Developer perspective, navigate to the +Add page.

Select your project from the Project menu.

Click on an item on the +Add page and then follow the workflow.


You can also use the search feature in the Add* page to find additional items to add to your project. Click * under Add at the top of the page and type the name of a component in the search field.
Checking the project status
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the OpenShift CLI (oc) to view the status of your project.

Checking project status by using the web console
You can review the status of your project by using the web console.

You have created a project.


If you are using the Administrator perspective:

If you are using the Developer perspective:
Checking project status by using the CLI
You can review the status of your project by using the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have created a project.


Switch to your project:

Obtain a high-level overview of the project:
Deleting a project
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the OpenShift CLI (oc) to delete a project.

When you delete a project, the server updates the project status to Terminating from Active. Then, the server clears all content from a project that is in the Terminating state before finally removing the project. While a project is in Terminating status, you cannot add new content to the project. Projects can be deleted from the CLI or the web console.

Deleting a project by using the web console
You can delete a project by using the web console.

You have created a project.

You have the required permissions to delete the project.


If you are using the Administrator perspective:

If you are using the Developer perspective:
Deleting a project by using the CLI
You can delete a project by using the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have created a project.

You have the required permissions to delete the project.


Delete your project: