Troubleshooting local persistent storage using LVMS

Because Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform does not scope a persistent volume (PV) to a single project, it can be shared across the cluster and claimed by any project using a persistent volume claim (PVC). This can lead to a number of issues that require troubleshooting.
Investigating a PVC stuck in the Pending state
A persistent volume claim (PVC) can get stuck in a Pending state for a number of reasons. For example:

Insufficient computing resources

Network problems

Mismatched storage class or node selector

No available volumes

The node with the persistent volume (PV) is in a Not Ready state


Identify the cause by using the oc describe command to review details about the stuck PVC.

Retrieve the list of PVCs by running the following command:

Inspect the events associated with a PVC stuck in the Pending state by running the following command:
Recovering from missing LVMS or Operator components
If you encounter a storage class "not found" error, check the LVMCluster resource and ensure that all the logical volume manager storage (LVMS) pods are running. You can create an LVMCluster resource if it does not exist.

Verify the presence of the LVMCluster resource by running the following command:

If the cluster does not have an LVMCluster resource, create one by running the following command:

Check that all the pods from LVMS are in the Running state in the openshift-storage namespace by running the following command:
Recovering from node failure
Sometimes a persistent volume claim (PVC) is stuck in a Pending state because a particular node in the cluster has failed. To identify the failed node, you can examine the restart count of the topolvm-node pod. An increased restart count indicates potential problems with the underlying node, which may require further investigation and troubleshooting.

Examine the restart count of the topolvm-node pod instances by running the following command:


Performing a forced cleanup
Recovering from disk failure
If you see a failure message while inspecting the events associated with the persistent volume claim (PVC), there might be a problem with the underlying volume or disk. Disk and volume provisioning issues often result with a generic error first, such as Failed to provision volume with StorageClass <storage_class_name>. A second, more specific error message usually follows.

Inspect the events associated with a PVC by running the following command:

Establish a direct connection to the host where the problem is occurring.

Resolve the disk issue.


After you have resolved the issue with the disk, you might need to perform the forced cleanup procedure if failure messages persist or reoccur.

Performing a forced cleanup
Performing a forced cleanup
If disk- or node-related problems persist after you complete the troubleshooting procedures, it might be necessary to perform a forced cleanup procedure. A forced cleanup is used to comprehensively address persistent issues and ensure the proper functioning of the LVMS.

All of the persistent volume claims (PVCs) created using the logical volume manager storage (LVMS) driver have been removed.

The pods using those PVCs have been stopped.


Switch to the openshift-storage namespace by running the following command:

Ensure there is no Logical Volume custom resource (CR) remaining by running the following command:

Make sure there are no LVMVolumeGroup CRs left by running the following command:

Remove any LVMVolumeGroupNodeStatus CRs by running the following command:

Remove the LVMCluster CR by running the following command: