Creating VMs by importing images from web pages

You can create virtual machines (VMs) by importing operating system images from web pages.

You must install the QEMU guest agent on VMs created from operating system images that are not provided by Red Hat.
Creating a VM from an image on a web page by using the web console
You can create a virtual machine (VM) by importing an image from a web page by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

You must have access to the web page that contains the image.


Navigate to Virtualization -> Catalog in the web console.

Click a template tile without an available boot source.

Click Customize VirtualMachine.

On the Customize template parameters page, expand Storage and select URL (creates PVC) from the Disk source list.

Enter the image URL. Example: https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/69/ver=/rhel---7/7.9/x86_64/product-software

Set the disk size.

Click Next.

Click Create VirtualMachine.
Creating a VM from an image on a web page by using the command line
You can create a virtual machine (VM) from an image on a web page by using the command line.

When the virtual machine (VM) is created, the data volume with the image is imported into persistent storage.

You must have access credentials for the web page that contains the image.


If the web page requires authentication, create a Secret manifest, specifying the credentials, and save it as a data-source-secret.yaml file:

Apply the Secret manifest by running the following command:

If the VM must communicate with servers that use self-signed certificates or certificates that are not signed by the system CA bundle, create a config map in the same namespace as the VM:

Edit the VirtualMachine manifest and save it as a vm-fedora-datavolume.yaml file:

Create the VM by running the following command:


The importer pod downloads the image from the specified URL and stores it on the provisioned persistent volume. View the status of the importer pod by running the following command:

Monitor the data volume until its status is Succeeded by running the following command:

Verify that provisioning is complete and that the VM has started by accessing its serial console: