Creating VMs by uploading images

You can create virtual machines (VMs) by uploading operating system images from your local machine.

You can create a Windows VM by uploading a Windows image to a PVC. Then you clone the PVC when you create the VM.

You must install the QEMU guest agent on VMs created from operating system images that are not provided by Red Hat.

You must also install VirtIO drivers on Windows VMs.
Creating a VM from an uploaded image by using the web console
You can create a virtual machine (VM) from an uploaded operating system image by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You must have an IMG, ISO, or QCOW2 image file.


Navigate to Virtualization -> Catalog in the web console.

Click a template tile without an available boot source.

Click Customize VirtualMachine.

On the Customize template parameters page, expand Storage and select Upload (Upload a new file to a PVC) from the Disk source list.

Browse to the image on your local machine and set the disk size.

Click Customize VirtualMachine.

Click Create VirtualMachine.
Creating a Windows VM
You can create a Windows virtual machine (VM) by uploading a Windows image to a persistent volume claim (PVC) and then cloning the PVC when you create a VM by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You created a Windows installation DVD or USB with the Windows Media Creation Tool. See Create Windows 10 installation media in the Microsoft documentation.

You created an autounattend.xml answer file. See Answer files (unattend.xml) in the Microsoft documentation.


Upload the Windows image as a new PVC:

Configure a new VM by cloning the uploaded PVC:

Apply the answer file to the VM:

Set the run strategy of the VM:

Click the options menu . and select Start.


Generalizing a Windows VM image
You can generalize a Windows operating system image to remove all system-specific configuration data before you use the image to create a new virtual machine (VM).

Before generalizing the VM, you must ensure the sysprep tool cannot detect an answer file after the unattended Windows installation.

A running Windows VM with the QEMU guest agent installed.


In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console, click Virtualization -> VirtualMachines.

Select a Windows VM to open the VirtualMachine details page.

Click Configuration -> Disks.

Click the Options menu . beside the sysprep disk and select Detach.

Click Detach.

Rename C:\Windows\Panther\unattend.xml to avoid detection by the sysprep tool.

Start the sysprep program by running the following command:

After the sysprep tool completes, the Windows VM shuts down. The disk image of the VM is now available to use as an installation image for Windows VMs.


You can now specialize the VM.
Specializing a Windows VM image
Specializing a Windows virtual machine (VM) configures the computer-specific information from a generalized Windows image onto the VM.

You must have a generalized Windows disk image.

You must create an unattend.xml answer file. See the Microsoft documentation for details.


In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console, click Virtualization -> Catalog.

Select a Windows template and click Customize VirtualMachine.

Select PVC (clone PVC) from the Disk source list.

Select the PVC project and PVC name of the generalized Windows image.

Click Customize VirtualMachine parameters.

Click the Scripts tab.

In the Sysprep section, click Edit, browse to the unattend.xml answer file, and click Save.

Click Create VirtualMachine.


During the initial boot, Windows uses the unattend.xml answer file to specialize the VM. The VM is now ready to use.

Microsoft, Sysprep (Generalize) a Windows installation

Microsoft, generalize

Microsoft, specialize
Creating a VM from an uploaded image by using the command line
You can upload an operating system image by using the virtctl command line tool. You can use an existing data volume or create a new data volume for the image.

You must have an ISO, IMG, or QCOW2 operating system image file.

For best performance, compress the image file by using the virt-sparsify tool or the xz or gzip utilities.

You must have virtctl installed.

The client machine must be configured to trust the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform router's
certificate.


Upload the image by running the virtctl image-upload command:

Optional. To verify that a data volume was created, view all data volumes by running the following command: