Viewing cluster dashboards

The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes and Openshift Logging dashboards in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console contain in-depth details about your Elasticsearch instance and the individual Elasticsearch nodes that you can use to prevent and diagnose problems.

The OpenShift Logging dashboard contains charts that show details about your Elasticsearch instance at a cluster level, including cluster resources, garbage collection, shards in the cluster, and Fluentd statistics.

The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains charts that show details about your Elasticsearch instance, many at node level, including details on indexing, shards, resources, and so forth.
Accessing the Elasticsearch and OpenShift Logging dashboards
You can view the Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes and OpenShift Logging dashboards in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

To launch the dashboards:

In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console, click Observe -> Dashboards.

On the Dashboards page, select Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes or OpenShift Logging from the Dashboard menu.

Optional: Select a different time range to display or refresh rate for the data from the Time Range and Refresh Interval menus.


For information on the dashboard charts, see About the OpenShift Logging dashboard and About the Logging/Elastisearch Nodes dashboard.
About the OpenShift Logging dashboard
The OpenShift Logging dashboard contains charts that show details about your Elasticsearch instance at a cluster-level that you can use to diagnose and anticipate problems.
Charts on the Logging/Elasticsearch nodes dashboard
The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains charts that show details about your Elasticsearch instance, many at node-level, for further diagnostics.


Elasticsearch status
The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about the status of your Elasticsearch instance.




Elasticsearch cluster index shard status
Each Elasticsearch index is a logical group of one or more shards, which are basic units of persisted data. There are two types of index shards: primary shards, and replica shards. When a document is indexed into an index, it is stored in one of its primary shards and copied into every replica of that shard. The number of primary shards is specified when the index is created, and the number cannot change during index lifetime. You can change the number of replica shards at any time.


The index shard can be in several states depending on its lifecycle phase or events occurring in the cluster. When the shard is able to perform search and indexing requests, the shard is active. If the shard cannot perform these requests, the shard is non–active. A shard might be non-active if the shard is initializing, reallocating, unassigned, and so forth.

Index shards consist of a number of smaller internal blocks, called index segments, which are physical representations of the data. An index segment is a relatively small, immutable Lucene index that is created when Lucene commits newly-indexed data. Lucene, a search library used by Elasticsearch, merges index segments into larger segments in the background to keep the total number of segments low. If the process of merging segments is slower than the speed at which new segments are created, it could indicate a problem.

When Lucene performs data operations, such as a search operation, Lucene performs the operation against the index segments in the relevant index. For that purpose, each segment contains specific data structures that are loaded in the memory and mapped. Index mapping can have a significant impact on the memory used by segment data structures.

The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about the Elasticsearch index shards.



Elasticsearch node metrics
Each Elasticsearch node has a finite amount of resources that can be used to process tasks. When all the resources are being used and Elasticsearch attempts to perform a new task, Elasticsearch puts the tasks into a queue until some resources become available.


The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about resource usage for a selected node and the number of tasks waiting in the Elasticsearch queue.



Elasticsearch node fielddata
Fielddata is an Elasticsearch data structure that holds lists of terms in an index and is kept in the JVM Heap. Because fielddata building is an expensive operation, Elasticsearch caches the fielddata structures. Elasticsearch can evict a fielddata cache when the underlying index segment is deleted or merged, or if there is not enough JVM HEAP memory for all the fielddata caches.


The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about Elasticsearch fielddata.



Elasticsearch node query cache
If the data stored in the index does not change, search query results are cached in a node-level query cache for reuse by Elasticsearch.


The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about the Elasticsearch node query cache.



Elasticsearch index throttling
When indexing documents, Elasticsearch stores the documents in index segments, which are physical representations of the data. At the same time, Elasticsearch periodically merges smaller segments into a larger segment as a way to optimize resource use. If the indexing is faster then the ability to merge segments, the merge process does not complete quickly enough, which can lead to issues with searches and performance. To prevent this situation, Elasticsearch throttles indexing, typically by reducing the number of threads allocated to indexing down to a single thread.


The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about Elasticsearch index throttling.



Node JVM Heap statistics
The Logging/Elasticsearch Nodes dashboard contains the following charts about JVM Heap operations.