Log visualization with Kibana

If you are using the ElasticSearch log store, you can use the Kibana console to visualize collected log data.

Using Kibana, you can do the following with your data:

Search and browse the data using the Discover tab.

Chart and map the data using the Visualize tab.

Create and view custom dashboards using the Dashboard tab.


Use and configuration of the Kibana interface is beyond the scope of this documentation. For more information about using the interface, see the Kibana documentation.

The audit logs are not stored in the internal Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Elasticsearch instance by default. To view the audit logs in Kibana, you must use the Log Forwarding API to configure a pipeline that uses the default output for audit logs.
Defining Kibana index patterns
An index pattern defines the Elasticsearch indices that you want to visualize. To explore and visualize data in Kibana, you must create an index pattern.

A user must have the cluster-admin role, the cluster-reader role, or both roles to view the infra and audit indices in Kibana. The default kubeadmin user has proper permissions to view these indices.

Elasticsearch documents must be indexed before you can create index patterns. This is done automatically, but it might take a few minutes in a new or updated cluster.


To define index patterns and create visualizations in Kibana:

In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console, click the Application Launcher Application Launcher and select Logging.

Create your Kibana index patterns by clicking Management -> Index Patterns -> Create index pattern:

Create Kibana Visualizations from the new index patterns.
Viewing cluster logs in Kibana
You view cluster logs in the Kibana web console. The methods for viewing and visualizing your data in Kibana that are beyond the scope of this documentation. For more information, refer to the Kibana documentation.

The Red Hat OpenShift Logging and Elasticsearch Operators must be installed.

Kibana index patterns must exist.

A user must have the cluster-admin role, the cluster-reader role, or both roles to view the infra and audit indices in Kibana. The default kubeadmin user has proper permissions to view these indices.


To view logs in Kibana:

In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console, click the Application Launcher Application Launcher and select Logging.

Log in using the same credentials you use to log in to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform console.

In Kibana, click Discover.

Select the index pattern you created from the drop-down menu in the top-left corner: app, audit, or infra.

Expand one of the time-stamped documents.

Click the JSON tab to display the log entry for that document.
Configuring Kibana
You can configure using the Kibana console by modifying the ClusterLogging custom resource (CR).

Configuring CPU and memory limits
The logging subsystem components allow for adjustments to both the CPU and memory limits.

Edit the ClusterLogging custom resource (CR) in the openshift-logging project:
Scaling redundancy for the log visualizer nodes
You can scale the pod that hosts the log visualizer for redundancy.

Edit the ClusterLogging custom resource (CR) in the openshift-logging project: