Preparing an Agent-based installed cluster for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes operator

You can install the multicluster engine for Kubernetes operator and deploy a hub cluster with the Agent-based Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Installer. The following procedure is partially automated and requires manual steps after the initial cluster is deployed.
Prerequisites
You have read the following documentation:

You have access to the internet to obtain the necessary container images.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

If you are installing in a disconnected environment, you must have a configured local mirror registry for disconnected installation mirroring.
Preparing an Agent-based cluster deployment for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes operator while disconnected
You can mirror the required Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform container images, the multicluster engine for Kubernetes operator, and the Local Storage Operator (LSO) into your local mirror registry in a disconnected environment. Ensure that you note the local DNS hostname and port of your mirror registry.

To mirror your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image repository to your mirror registry, you can use either the oc adm release image or oc mirror command. In this procedure, the oc mirror command is used as an example.
Create an <assets_directory> folder to contain valid install-config.yaml and agent-config.yaml files. This directory is used to store all the assets.

To mirror an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image repository, the multicluster engine, and the LSO, create a ImageSetConfiguration.yaml file with the following settings:

To mirror a specific Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image repository, the multicluster engine, and the LSO, run the following command:

Update the registry and certificate in the install-config.yaml file:

Generate the cluster manifests by running the following command:
Preparing an Agent-based cluster deployment for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes operator while connected
Create the required manifests for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes operator, the Local Storage Operator (LSO), and to deploy an agent-based Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster as a hub cluster.

Create a sub-folder named  openshift in the <assets_directory> folder. This sub-folder is used to store the extra manifests that will be applied during the installation to further customize the deployed cluster.
The <assets_directory> folder contains all the assets including the install-config.yaml and agent-config.yaml files.

For the multicluster engine, create the following manifests and save them in the <assets_directory>/openshift folder:

For the AI service, create the following manifests and save them in the <assets_directory>/openshift folder:

Create the agent ISO image by running the following command:

When the image is ready, boot the target machine and wait for the installation to complete.

To monitor the installation, run the following command:

For the PVs that are required by the AI service, create the following manifests:

Use the following command to wait for the availability of the PVs, before applying the subsequent manifests:

Create a manifest for a multicluster engine instance.

Create a manifest to enable the AI service.

Create a manifest to deploy subsequently spoke clusters.

Create a manifest to import the agent installed cluster (that hosts the multicluster engine and the Assisted Service) as the hub cluster.

Wait for the managed cluster to be created.


To confirm that the managed cluster installation is successful, run the following command:


The Local Storage Operator