Preparing PXE assets for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"

Use the following procedures to create the assets needed to PXE boot an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using the Agent-based Installer.

The assets you create in these procedures will deploy a single-node "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation. You can use these procedures as a basis and modify configurations according to your requirements.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and update processes.
Downloading the Agent-based Installer
Use this procedure to download the Agent-based Installer and the CLI needed for your installation.

Currently, downloading the Agent-based Installer is not supported on the IBM Z&#174; (s390x) architecture. The recommended method is by creating PXE assets.
Log in to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console using your login credentials.

Navigate to Datacenter.

Click Run Agent-based Installer locally.

Select the operating system and architecture for the OpenShift Installer and Command line interface.

Click Download Installer to download and extract the install program.

You can either download or copy the pull secret by clicking on Download pull secret or Copy pull secret.

Click Download command-line tools and place the openshift-install binary in a directory that is on your PATH.
Creating the preferred configuration inputs
Use this procedure to create the preferred configuration inputs used to create the PXE files.

Install nmstate dependency by running the following command:

Place the openshift-install binary in a directory that is on your PATH.

Create a directory to store the install configuration by running the following command:

Create the install-config.yaml file:

Create the agent-config.yaml file:

Optional: To create an iPXE script, add the bootArtifactsBaseURL to the agent-config.yaml file:


Deploying with dual-stack networking.

Configuring the install-config yaml file.

See Configuring a three-node cluster to deploy three-node clusters in bare metal environments.

About root device hints.

NMState state examples.

Optional: Creating additional manifest files
Creating the PXE assets
Use the following procedure to create the assets and optional script to implement in your PXE infrastructure.

Create the PXE assets by running the following command:

Upload the PXE assets and optional script to your infrastructure where they will be accessible during the boot process.
Manually adding IBM Z agents
After creating the PXE assets, you can add IBM Z&#174; agents.

Currently ISO boot is not supported on IBM Z&#174; (s390x) architecture. Therefore, manually adding IBM Z&#174; agents is required for Agent-based installations on IBM Z&#174;.
Depending on your IBM Z&#174; environment, you can choose from the following options:

Adding IBM Z&#174; agents with z/VM

Adding IBM Z&#174; agents with RHEL KVM


Adding IBM Z agents with z/VM
Use the following procedure to manually add IBM Z&#174; agents with z/VM.

Create a parameter file for the z/VM guest:

Punch the kernel.img,generic.parm, and initrd.img files to the virtual reader of the z/VM guest virtual machine.

Log in to the conversational monitor system (CMS) on the bootstrap machine.

IPL the bootstrap machine from the reader by running the following command:
Adding IBM Z&#174; agents with RHEL KVM
Use the following procedure to manually add IBM Z&#174; agents with RHEL KVM.

Boot your RHEL KVM machine.

To deploy the virtual server, run the virt-install command with the following parameters:
Additional resources
See Installing an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster with the Agent-based Installer to learn about more configurations available with the Agent-based Installer.