Recommended infrastructure practices

This topic provides recommended performance and scalability practices for infrastructure in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
Infrastructure node sizing
Infrastructure nodes are nodes that are labeled to run pieces of the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform environment. The infrastructure node resource requirements depend on the cluster age, nodes, and objects in the cluster, as these factors can lead to an increase in the number of metrics or time series in Prometheus. The following infrastructure node size recommendations are based on the results observed in cluster-density testing detailed in the Control plane node sizing section, where the monitoring stack and the default ingress-controller were moved to these nodes.


In general, three infrastructure nodes are recommended per cluster.

These sizing recommendations should be used as a guideline. Prometheus is a highly memory intensive application; the resource usage depends on various factors including the number of nodes, objects, the Prometheus metrics scraping interval, metrics or time series, and the age of the cluster. In addition, the router resource usage can also be affected by the number of routes and the amount/type of inbound requests.

These recommendations apply only to infrastructure nodes hosting Monitoring, Ingress and Registry infrastructure components installed during cluster creation.
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16, half of a CPU core (500 millicore) is now reserved by the system by default compared to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 3.11 and previous versions. This influences the stated sizing recommendations.
Scaling the Cluster Monitoring Operator
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform exposes metrics that the Cluster Monitoring Operator collects and stores in the Prometheus-based monitoring stack. As an administrator, you can view dashboards for system resources, containers, and components metrics in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console by navigating to Observe -> Dashboards.
Prometheus database storage requirements
Red Hat performed various tests for different scale sizes.

The following Prometheus storage requirements are not prescriptive and should be used as a reference. Higher resource consumption might be observed in your cluster depending on workload activity and resource density, including the number of pods, containers, routes, or other resources exposing metrics collected by Prometheus.

You can configure the size-based data retention policy to suit your storage requirements.

Approximately 20 percent of the expected size was added as overhead to ensure that the storage requirements do not exceed the calculated value.

The above calculation is for the default Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Cluster Monitoring Operator.

CPU utilization has minor impact. The ratio is approximately 1 core out of 40 per 50 nodes and 1800 pods.
Recommendations for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform

Use at least two infrastructure (infra) nodes.

Use at least three openshift-container-storage nodes with non-volatile memory express (SSD or NVMe) drives.
Configuring cluster monitoring
You can increase the storage capacity for the Prometheus component in the cluster monitoring stack.

To increase the storage capacity for Prometheus:

Create a YAML configuration file, cluster-monitoring-config.yaml. For example:

Add values for the retention period, storage class, and storage sizes.

Save the file.

Apply the changes by running:
Additional resources
Infrastructure Nodes in OpenShift 4

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster maximums

Creating infrastructure machine sets