Enabling alert routing for user-defined projects

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16, a cluster administrator can enable alert routing for user-defined projects. This process consists of two general steps:

Enable alert routing for user-defined projects to use the default platform Alertmanager instance or, optionally, a separate Alertmanager instance only for user-defined projects.

Grant users permission to configure alert routing for user-defined projects.


After you complete these steps, developers and other users can configure custom alerts and alert routing for their user-defined projects.
Understanding alert routing for user-defined projects
As a cluster administrator, you can enable alert routing for user-defined projects. With this feature, you can allow users with the alert-routing-edit role to configure alert notification routing and receivers for user-defined projects. These notifications are routed by the default Alertmanager instance or, if enabled, an optional Alertmanager instance dedicated to user-defined monitoring.

Users can then create and configure user-defined alert routing by creating or editing the AlertmanagerConfig objects for their user-defined projects without the help of an administrator.

After a user has defined alert routing for a user-defined project, user-defined alert notifications are routed as follows:

To the alertmanager-main pods in the openshift-monitoring namespace if using the default platform Alertmanager instance.

To the alertmanager-user-workload pods in the openshift-user-workload-monitoring namespace if you have enabled a separate instance of Alertmanager for user-defined projects.


The following are limitations of alert routing for user-defined projects:

For user-defined alerting rules, user-defined routing is scoped to the namespace in which the resource is defined. For example, a routing configuration in namespace ns1 only applies to PrometheusRules resources in the same namespace.

When a namespace is excluded from user-defined monitoring, AlertmanagerConfig resources in the namespace cease to be part of the Alertmanager configuration.
Enabling the platform Alertmanager instance for user-defined alert routing
You can allow users to create user-defined alert routing configurations that use the main platform instance of Alertmanager.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Edit the cluster-monitoring-config ConfigMap object:

Add enableUserAlertmanagerConfig: true in the alertmanagerMain section under data/config.yaml:

Save the file to apply the changes.
Enabling a separate Alertmanager instance for user-defined alert routing
In some clusters, you might want to deploy a dedicated Alertmanager instance for user-defined projects, which can help reduce the load on the default platform Alertmanager instance and can better separate user-defined alerts from default platform alerts. In these cases, you can optionally enable a separate instance of Alertmanager to send alerts for user-defined projects only.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.

You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Edit the user-workload-monitoring-config ConfigMap object:

Add enabled: true and enableAlertmanagerConfig: true in the alertmanager section under data/config.yaml:

Save the file to apply the changes. The dedicated instance of Alertmanager for user-defined projects starts automatically.


Verify that the user-workload Alertmanager instance has started:
Granting users permission to configure alert routing for user-defined projects
You can grant users permission to configure alert routing for user-defined projects.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.

You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.

The user account that you are assigning the role to already exists.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Assign the alert-routing-edit cluster role to a user in the user-defined project:


Enabling monitoring for user defined projects

Creating alert routing for user-defined projects
Next steps
Managing alerts