Installing a cluster on Azure into an existing VNet

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version {product-version}, you can install a cluster into an existing Azure Virtual Network (VNet) on Microsoft Azure. The installation program provisions the rest of the required infrastructure, which you can further customize. To customize the installation, you modify parameters in the install-config.yaml file before you install the cluster.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You configured an Azure account to host the cluster and determined the tested and validated region to deploy the cluster to.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.

If you use customer-managed encryption keys, you prepared your Azure environment for encryption.
About reusing a VNet for your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, you can deploy a cluster into an existing Azure Virtual Network (VNet) in Microsoft Azure. If you do, you must also use existing subnets within the VNet and routing rules.

By deploying "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" into an existing Azure VNet, you might be able to avoid service limit constraints in new accounts or more easily abide by the operational constraints that your company's guidelines set. This is a good option to use if you cannot obtain the infrastructure creation permissions that are required to create the VNet.

Requirements for using your VNet
When you deploy a cluster by using an existing VNet, you must perform additional network configuration before you install the cluster. In installer-provisioned infrastructure clusters, the installer usually creates the following components, but it does not create them when you install into an existing VNet:

Subnets

Route tables

VNets

Network Security Groups


The installation program requires that you use the cloud-provided DNS server. Using a custom DNS server is not supported and causes the installation to fail.
If you use a custom VNet, you must correctly configure it and its subnets for the installation program and the cluster to use. The installation program cannot subdivide network ranges for the cluster to use, set route tables for the subnets, or set VNet options like DHCP, so you must do so before you install the cluster.

The cluster must be able to access the resource group that contains the existing VNet and subnets. While all of the resources that the cluster creates are placed in a separate resource group that it creates, some network resources are used from a separate group. Some cluster Operators must be able to access resources in both resource groups. For example, the Machine API controller attaches NICS for the virtual machines that it creates to subnets from the networking resource group.

Your VNet must meet the following characteristics:

The VNet's CIDR block must contain the Networking.MachineCIDR range, which is the IP address pool for cluster machines.

The VNet and its subnets must belong to the same resource group, and the subnets must be configured to use Azure-assigned DHCP IP addresses instead of static IP addresses.


You must provide two subnets within your VNet, one for the control plane machines and one for the compute machines. Because Azure distributes machines in different availability zones within the region that you specify, your cluster will have high availability by default.

By default, if you specify availability zones in the install-config.yaml file, the installation program distributes the control plane machines and the compute machines across these availability zones within a region. To ensure high availability for your cluster, select a region with at least three availability zones. If your region contains fewer than three availability zones, the installation program places more than one control plane machine in the available zones.
To ensure that the subnets that you provide are suitable, the installation program confirms the following data:

All the specified subnets exist.

There are two private subnets, one for the control plane machines and one for the compute machines.

The subnet CIDRs belong to the machine CIDR that you specified. Machines are not provisioned in availability zones that you do not provide private subnets for.
If required, the installation program creates public load balancers that manage the control plane and worker nodes, and Azure allocates a public IP address to them.


If you destroy a cluster that uses an existing VNet, the VNet is not deleted.
Network security group requirements
The network security groups for the subnets that host the compute and control plane machines require specific access to ensure that the cluster communication is correct. You must create rules to allow access to the required cluster communication ports.

The network security group rules must be in place before you install the cluster. If you attempt to install a cluster without the required access, the installation program cannot reach the Azure APIs, and installation fails.

If you are using Azure Firewall to restrict the internet access, then you can configure Azure Firewall to allow the Azure APIs. A network security group rule is not needed.
Currently, there is no supported way to block or restrict the machine config server endpoint. The machine config server must be exposed to the network so that newly-provisioned machines, which have no existing configuration or state, are able to fetch their configuration. In this model, the root of trust is the certificate signing requests (CSR) endpoint, which is where the kubelet sends its certificate signing request for approval to join the cluster. Because of this, machine configs should not be used to distribute sensitive information, such as secrets and certificates.

To ensure that the machine config server endpoints, ports 22623 and 22624, are secured in bare metal scenarios, customers must configure proper network policies.
Because cluster components do not modify the user-provided network security groups, which the Kubernetes controllers update, a pseudo-network security group is created for the Kubernetes controller to modify without impacting the rest of the environment.

About the OpenShift SDN network plugin

Configuring your firewall
Division of permissions
Starting with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.3, you do not need all of the permissions that are required for an installation program-provisioned infrastructure cluster to deploy a cluster. This change mimics the division of permissions that you might have at your company: some individuals can create different resources in your clouds than others. For example, you might be able to create application-specific items, like instances, storage, and load balancers, but not networking-related components such as VNets, subnet, or ingress rules.

The Azure credentials that you use when you create your cluster do not need the networking permissions that are required to make VNets and core networking components within the VNet, such as subnets, routing tables, internet gateways, NAT, and VPN. You still need permission to make the application resources that the machines within the cluster require, such as load balancers, security groups, storage accounts, and nodes.
Isolation between clusters
Because the cluster is unable to modify network security groups in an existing subnet, there is no way to isolate clusters from each other on the VNet.
Internet access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access OpenShift Cluster Manager to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access
During an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation, you can provide an SSH public key to the installation program. The key is passed to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes through their Ignition config files and is used to authenticate SSH access to the nodes. The key is added to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys list for the core user on each node, which enables password-less authentication.

After the key is passed to the nodes, you can use the key pair to SSH in to the RHCOS nodes as the user core. To access the nodes through SSH, the private key identity must be managed by SSH for your local user.

If you want to SSH in to your cluster nodes to perform installation debugging or disaster recovery, you must provide the SSH public key during the installation process. The ./openshift-install gather command also requires the SSH public key to be in place on the cluster nodes.

Do not skip this procedure in production environments, where disaster recovery and debugging is required.
You must use a local key, not one that you configured with platform-specific approaches such as AWS key pairs.
If you do not have an existing SSH key pair on your local machine to use for authentication onto your cluster nodes, create one. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command:

View the public SSH key:

Add the SSH private key identity to the SSH agent for your local user, if it has not already been added. SSH agent management of the key is required for password-less SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes, or if you want to use the ./openshift-install gather command.

Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:


When you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", provide the SSH public key to the installation program.
Obtaining the installation program
Before you install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", download the installation file on  the host you are using for installation.

You have a computer that runs Linux or macOS, with 500 MB of local disk space.


Access the Infrastructure Provider page on the OpenShift Cluster Manager site. If you have a Red Hat account, log in with your credentials. If you do not, create an account.

Select your infrastructure provider.

Navigate to the page for your installation type, download the installation program that corresponds with your host operating system and architecture, and place the file in the directory where you will store the installation configuration files.

Extract the installation program. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux
operating system, run the following command:

Download your installation pull secret from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" components.
Creating the installation configuration file
You can customize the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster you install on Microsoft Azure.

You have the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have an Azure subscription ID and tenant ID.

If you are installing the cluster using a service principal, you have its application ID and password.

If you are installing the cluster using a system-assigned managed identity, you have enabled it on the virtual machine that you will run the installation program from.

If you are installing the cluster using a user-assigned managed identity, you have met these prerequisites:


Optional: If you have run the installation program on this computer before, and want to use an alternative service principal or managed identity, go to the ~/.azure/ directory and delete the osServicePrincipal.json configuration file.

Create the install-config.yaml file.

Modify the install-config.yaml file. You can find more information about the available parameters in the "Installation configuration parameters" section.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use
it to install multiple clusters.


If previously not detected, the installation program creates an osServicePrincipal.json configuration file and stores this file in the ~/.azure/ directory on your computer. This ensures that the installation program can load the profile when it is creating an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on the target platform.

Installation configuration parameters for Azure


Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation
Each cluster machine must meet the following minimum requirements:


One vCPU is equivalent to one physical core when simultaneous multithreading (SMT), or hyperthreading, is not enabled. When enabled, use the following formula to calculate the corresponding ratio: (threads per core × cores) × sockets = vCPUs.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" and Kubernetes are sensitive to disk performance, and faster storage is recommended, particularly for etcd on the control plane nodes which require a 10 ms p99 fsync duration. Note that on many cloud platforms, storage size and IOPS scale together, so you might need to over-allocate storage volume to obtain sufficient performance.

As with all user-provisioned installations, if you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you take responsibility for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance, including performing system updates, applying patches, and completing all other required tasks. Use of RHEL 7 compute machines is deprecated and has been removed in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.10 and later.
You are required to use Azure virtual machines that have the premiumIO parameter set to true.
If an instance type for your platform meets the minimum requirements for cluster machines, it is supported to use in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

Optimizing storage
Tested instance types for Azure
The following Microsoft Azure instance types have been tested with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/installer/master/docs/user/azure/tested_instance_types_x86_64.md
Tested instance types for Azure on 64-bit ARM infrastructures
The following Microsoft Azure ARM64 instance types have been tested with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/installer/master/docs/user/azure/tested_instance_types_aarch64.md
Enabling trusted launch for Azure VMs
You can enable two trusted launch features when installing your cluster on Azure: secure boot and virtualized Trusted Platform Modules.

See the Azure documentation about virtual machine sizes to learn what sizes of virtual machines support these features.

Trusted launch is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You have created an install-config.yaml file.


Use a text editor to edit the install-config.yaml file prior to deploying your cluster and add the following stanza:
Enabling confidential VMs
You can enable confidential VMs when installing your cluster. You can enable confidential VMs for compute nodes, control plane nodes, or all nodes.

Using confidential VMs is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You can use confidential VMs with the following VM sizes:

DCasv5-series

DCadsv5-series

ECasv5-series

ECadsv5-series


Confidential VMs are currently not supported on 64-bit ARM architectures.
You have created an install-config.yaml file.


Use a text editor to edit the install-config.yaml file prior to deploying your cluster and add the following stanza:
Sample customized install-config.yaml file for Azure
You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

This sample YAML file is provided for reference only. You must obtain your install-config.yaml file by using the installation program and modify it.
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com 1
controlPlane: 2
  hyperthreading: Enabled 3 4
  name: master
  platform:
    azure:
      encryptionAtHost: true
      ultraSSDCapability: Enabled
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGB: 1024 5
        diskType: Premium_LRS
        diskEncryptionSet:
          resourceGroup: disk_encryption_set_resource_group
          name: disk_encryption_set_name
          subscriptionId: secondary_subscription_id
      osImage:
        publisher: example_publisher_name
        offer: example_image_offer
        sku: example_offer_sku
        version: example_image_version
      type: Standard_D8s_v3
  replicas: 3
compute: 2
- hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: worker
  platform:
    azure:
      ultraSSDCapability: Enabled
      type: Standard_D2s_v3
      encryptionAtHost: true
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGB: 512 5
        diskType: Standard_LRS
        diskEncryptionSet:
          resourceGroup: disk_encryption_set_resource_group
          name: disk_encryption_set_name
          subscriptionId: secondary_subscription_id
      osImage:
        publisher: example_publisher_name
        offer: example_image_offer
        sku: example_offer_sku
        version: example_image_version
      zones: 6
      - "1"
      - "2"
      - "3"
  replicas: 5
metadata:
  name: test-cluster 1
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
  networkType: OVNKubernetes 7
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  azure:
    defaultMachinePlatform:
      osImage: 8
        publisher: example_publisher_name
        offer: example_image_offer
        sku: example_offer_sku
        version: example_image_version
      ultraSSDCapability: Enabled
    baseDomainResourceGroupName: resource_group 9
    region: centralus 1
    resourceGroupName: existing_resource_group 10
    networkResourceGroupName: vnet_resource_group 11
    virtualNetwork: vnet 12
    controlPlaneSubnet: control_plane_subnet 13
    computeSubnet: compute_subnet 14
    outboundType: Loadbalancer
    cloudName: AzurePublicCloud
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}' 1
fips: false 15
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA... 16
Required. The installation program prompts you for this value.

If you do not provide these parameters and values, the installation program provides the default value.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the first line of the controlPlane section must not. Only one control plane pool is used.

Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or hyperthreading. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by setting the parameter value to Disabled. If you disable simultaneous multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster machines.

You can specify the size of the disk to use in GB. Minimum recommendation for control plane nodes is 1024 GB.

Specify a list of zones to deploy your machines to. For high availability, specify at least two zones.

The cluster network plugin to install. The supported values are OVNKubernetes and OpenShiftSDN. The default value is OVNKubernetes.

Optional: A custom Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image that should be used to boot control plane and compute machines. The publisher, offer, sku, and version parameters under platform.azure.defaultMachinePlatform.osImage apply to both control plane and compute machines. If the parameters under controlPlane.platform.azure.osImage or compute.platform.azure.osImage are set, they override the platform.azure.defaultMachinePlatform.osImage parameters.

Specify the name of the resource group that contains the DNS zone for your base domain.

Specify the name of an already existing resource group to install your cluster to. If undefined, a new resource group is created for the cluster.

If you use an existing VNet, specify the name of the resource group that contains it.

If you use an existing VNet, specify its name.

If you use an existing VNet, specify the name of the subnet to host the control plane machines.

If you use an existing VNet, specify the name of the subnet to host the compute machines.

Whether to enable or disable FIPS mode. By default, FIPS mode is not enabled. If FIPS mode is enabled, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines that "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" runs on bypass the default Kubernetes cryptography suite and use the cryptography modules that are provided with RHCOS instead.

You can optionally provide the sshKey value that you use to access the machines in your cluster.
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
For more details about Accelerated Networking, see Accelerated Networking for Microsoft Azure VMs.
Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) to interact with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}. Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v{product-version} Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v{product-version} Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v{product-version} macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Alternatives to storing administrator-level secrets in the kube-system project
By default, administrator secrets are stored in the kube-system project. If you configured the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml file to Manual, you must use one of the following alternatives:

To manage long-term cloud credentials manually, follow the procedure in Manually creating long-term credentials.

To implement short-term credentials that are managed outside the cluster for individual components, follow the procedures in Configuring an Azure cluster to use short-term credentials.


Manually creating long-term credentials
The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) can be put into manual mode prior to installation in environments where the cloud identity and access management (IAM) APIs are not reachable, or the administrator prefers not to store an administrator-level credential secret in the cluster kube-system namespace.

If you did not set the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml configuration file to Manual, modify the value as shown:

If you have not previously created installation manifest files, do so by running the following command:

Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Create YAML files for secrets in the openshift-install manifests directory that you generated previously. The secrets must be stored using the namespace and secret name defined in the spec.secretRef for each CredentialsRequest object.


Before upgrading a cluster that uses manually maintained credentials, you must ensure that the CCO is in an upgradeable state.
Configuring an Azure cluster to use short-term credentials
To install a cluster that uses Azure AD Workload Identity, you must configure the Cloud Credential Operator utility and create the required Azure resources for your cluster.

Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility
To create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster when the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) is operating in manual mode, extract and prepare the CCO utility (ccoctl) binary.

The ccoctl utility is a Linux binary that must run in a Linux environment.
You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" account with cluster administrator access.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


You have created a global Microsoft Azure account for the ccoctl utility to use with the following permissions:


Obtain the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Obtain the CCO container image from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Extract the ccoctl binary from the CCO container image within the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Change the permissions to make ccoctl executable by running the following command:


To verify that ccoctl is ready to use, display the help file by running the following command:
Creating Azure resources with the Cloud Credential Operator utility
You can use the ccoctl azure create-all command to automate the creation of Azure resources.

By default, ccoctl creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the --output-dir flag. This procedure uses <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir> to refer to this directory.
You must have:

Extracted and prepared the ccoctl binary.

Access to your Microsoft Azure account by using the Azure CLI.


Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest objects from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

To enable the ccoctl utility to detect your Azure credentials automatically, log in to the Azure CLI by running the following command:

Use the ccoctl tool to process all CredentialsRequest objects by running the following command:


To verify that the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" secrets are created, list the files in the <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests directory:
Incorporating the Cloud Credential Operator utility manifests
To implement short-term security credentials managed outside the cluster for individual components, you must move the manifest files that the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) created to the correct directories for the installation program.

You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have configured the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl).

You have created the cloud provider resources that are required for your cluster with the ccoctl utility.


If you did not set the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml configuration file to Manual, modify the value as shown:

If you used the ccoctl utility to create a new Azure resource group instead of using an existing resource group, modify the resourceGroupName parameter in the install-config.yaml as shown:

If you have not previously created installation manifest files, do so by running the following command:

Copy the manifests that the ccoctl utility generated to the manifests directory that the installation program created by running the following command:

Copy the private key that the ccoctl utility generated in the tls directory to the installation directory by running the following command:
Deploying the cluster
You can install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have an Azure subscription ID and tenant ID.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
See Accessing the web console for more details about accessing and understanding the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.
Telemetry access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to OpenShift Cluster Manager.

After you confirm that your OpenShift Cluster Manager inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

See About remote health monitoring for more information about the Telemetry service
Next steps
Customize your cluster.

If necessary, you can
opt out of remote health reporting.