Validating an installation

You can check the status of an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster after an installation by following the procedures in this document.
Reviewing the installation log
You can review a summary of an installation in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation log. If an installation succeeds, the information required to access the cluster is included in the log.

You have access to the installation host.


Review the .openshift_install.log log file in the installation directory on your installation host:
Viewing the image pull source
For clusters with unrestricted network connectivity, you can view the source of your pulled images by using a command on a node, such as crictl images.

However, for disconnected installations, to view the source of pulled images, you must review the CRI-O logs to locate the Trying to access log entry, as shown in the following procedure. Other methods to view the image pull source, such as the crictl images command, show the non-mirrored image name, even though the image is pulled from the mirrored location.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


Review the CRI-O logs for a master or worker node:
Getting cluster version, status, and update details
You can view the cluster version and status by running the oc get clusterversion command. If the status shows that the installation is still progressing, you can review the status of the Operators for more information.

You can also list the current update channel and review the available cluster updates.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Obtain the cluster version and overall status:

If the cluster status indicates that the installation is still progressing, you can obtain more detailed progress information by checking the status of the Operators:

View a detailed summary of cluster specifications, update availability, and update history:

List the current update channel:

Review the available cluster updates:


See Querying Operator status after installation for more information about querying Operator status if your installation is still progressing.

See Troubleshooting Operator issues for information about investigating issues with Operators.

See Updating a cluster using the web console for more information on updating your cluster.

See Understanding update channels and releases for an overview about update release channels.
Clusters that use short-term credentials: Verifying the credentials configuration
You can verify that your cluster is using short-term security credentials for individual components.

You deployed an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster using the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) to implement short-term credentials.

You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).


Log in as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

Verify that the cluster does not have root credentials by running the following command:

Verify that the components are using short-term security credentials for individual components by running the following command:
Querying the status of the cluster nodes by using the CLI
You can verify the status of the cluster nodes after an installation.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


List the status of the cluster nodes. Verify that the output lists all of the expected control plane and compute nodes and that each node has a Ready status:

Review CPU and memory resource availability for each cluster node:


See Verifying node health for more details about reviewing node health and investigating node issues.
Reviewing the cluster status from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console
You can review the following information in the Overview page in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console:

The general status of your cluster

The status of the control plane, cluster Operators, and storage

CPU, memory, file system, network transfer, and pod availability

The API address of the cluster, the cluster ID, and the name of the provider

Cluster version information

Cluster update status, including details of the current update channel and available updates

A cluster inventory detailing node, pod, storage class, and persistent volume claim (PVC) information

A list of ongoing cluster activities and recent events


You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


In the Administrator perspective, navigate to Home -> Overview.
Reviewing the cluster status from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager
From the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console, you can review detailed information about the status of your cluster on OpenShift Cluster Manager.

You are logged in to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager].

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


Go to the Clusters list in https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager] and locate your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

Click the Overview tab for your cluster.

Review the following information about your cluster:

Navigate to the Monitoring page to review the following information:

Optional: You can view information about your cluster that Red Hat Insights collects by navigating to the Overview menu. From this menu you can view the following information:


See Using Insights to identify issues with your cluster for more information about reviewing potential issues with your cluster.
Checking cluster resource availability and utilization
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides a comprehensive set of monitoring dashboards that help you understand the state of cluster components.

In the Administrator perspective, you can access dashboards for core Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components, including:

etcd

Kubernetes compute resources

Kubernetes network resources

Prometheus

Dashboards relating to cluster and node performance



You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


In the Administrator perspective in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console, navigate to Observe -> Dashboards.

Choose a dashboard in the Dashboard list. Some dashboards, such as the etcd dashboard, produce additional sub-menus when selected.

Optional: Select a time range for the graphs in the Time Range list.

Optional: Select a Refresh Interval.

Hover over each of the graphs within a dashboard to display detailed information about specific items.


See Monitoring overview for more information about the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform monitoring stack.
Listing alerts that are firing
Alerts provide notifications when a set of defined conditions are true in an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster. You can review the alerts that are firing in your cluster by using the Alerting UI in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.


In the Administrator perspective, navigate to the Observe -> Alerting -> Alerts page.

Review the alerts that are firing, including their Severity, State, and Source.

Select an alert to view more detailed information in the Alert Details page.


See Managing alerts for further details about alerting in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
Next steps
See Troubleshooting installations if you experience issues when installing your cluster.

After installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, you can further expand and customize your cluster.