Adding compute machines to bare metal

You can add more compute machines to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on bare metal.
Prerequisites
You installed a cluster on bare metal.

You have installation media and Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images that you used to create your cluster. If you do not have these files, you must obtain them by following the instructions in the installation procedure.

If a DHCP server is available for your user-provisioned infrastructure, you have added the details for the additional compute machines to your DHCP server configuration. This includes a persistent IP address, DNS server information, and a hostname for each machine.

You have updated your DNS configuration to include the record name and IP address of each compute machine that you are adding. You have validated that DNS lookup and reverse DNS lookup resolve correctly.


If you do not have access to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images that were used to create your cluster, you can add more compute machines to your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster with newer versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images. For instructions, see Adding new nodes to UPI cluster fails after upgrading to OpenShift 4.6+.
Creating Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines
Before you add more compute machines to a cluster that you installed on bare metal infrastructure, you must create RHCOS machines for it to use. You can either use an ISO image or network PXE booting to create the machines.

You must use the same ISO image that you used to install a cluster to deploy all new nodes in a cluster. It is recommended to use the same Ignition config file. The nodes automatically upgrade themselves on the first boot before running the workloads. You can add the nodes before or after the upgrade.
Creating RHCOS machines using an ISO image
You can create more Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines for your bare metal cluster by using an ISO image to create the machines.

Obtain the URL of the Ignition config file for the compute machines for your cluster. You uploaded this file to your HTTP server during installation.

You must have the OpenShift CLI (oc)  installed.


Extract the Ignition config file from the cluster by running the following command:

Upload the worker.ign Ignition config file you exported from your cluster to your HTTP server. Note the URLs of these files.

You can validate that the ignition files are available on the URLs. The following example gets the Ignition config files for the compute node:

You can access the ISO image for booting your new machine by running to following command:

Use the ISO file to install RHCOS on more compute machines. Use the same method that you used when you created machines before you installed the cluster:

Boot the RHCOS ISO image without specifying any options, or interrupting the live boot sequence. Wait for the installer to boot into a shell prompt in the RHCOS live environment.

Run the coreos-installer command and specify the options that meet your installation requirements. At a minimum, you must specify the URL that points to the Ignition config file for the node type, and the device that you are installing to:

Monitor the progress of the RHCOS installation on the console of the machine.

Continue to create more compute machines for your cluster.
Creating RHCOS machines by PXE or iPXE booting
You can create more Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines for your bare metal cluster by using PXE or iPXE booting.

Obtain the URL of the Ignition config file for the compute machines for your cluster. You uploaded this file to your HTTP server during installation.

Obtain the URLs of the RHCOS ISO image, compressed metal BIOS, kernel, and initramfs files that you uploaded to your HTTP server during cluster installation.

You have access to the PXE booting infrastructure that you used to create the machines for your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster during installation. The machines must boot from their local disks after RHCOS is installed on them.

If you use UEFI, you have access to the grub.conf file that you modified during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation.


Confirm that your PXE or iPXE installation for the RHCOS images is correct.

Use the PXE or iPXE infrastructure to create the required compute machines for your cluster.
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.