Configuring live migration

You can configure live migration settings to ensure that the migration processes do not overwhelm the cluster.

You can configure live migration policies to apply different migration configurations to groups of virtual machines (VMs).
Live migration settings
You can configure the following live migration settings:

Limits and timeouts

Maximum number of migrations per node or cluster


Configuring live migration limits and timeouts
Configure live migration limits and timeouts for the cluster by updating the HyperConverged custom resource (CR), which is located in the openshift-cnv namespace.

Edit the HyperConverged CR and add the necessary live migration parameters:


You can restore the default value for any spec.liveMigrationConfig field by deleting that key/value pair and saving the file. For example, delete progressTimeout: <value> to restore the default progressTimeout: 150.
Live migration policies
You can create live migration policies to apply different migration configurations to groups of VMs that are defined by VM or project labels.

You can create live migration policies by using the web console.
Creating a live migration policy by using the command line
You can create a live migration policy by using the command line. A live migration policy is applied to selected virtual machines (VMs) by using any combination of labels:

VM labels such as size, os, or gpu

Project labels such as priority, bandwidth, or hpc-workload


For the policy to apply to a specific group of VMs, all labels on the group of VMs must match the labels of the policy.

If multiple live migration policies apply to a VM, the policy with the greatest number of matching labels takes precedence.

If multiple policies meet this criteria, the policies are sorted by alphabetical order of the matching label keys, and the first one in that order takes precedence.
Create a MigrationPolicy object as in the following example:

Create the migration policy by running the following command:
Additional resources
Configuring a dedicated Multus network for live migration