Enabling Windows container workloads

Before adding Windows workloads to your cluster, you must install the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO), which is available in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" OperatorHub. The WMCO orchestrates the process of deploying and managing Windows workloads on a cluster.

Dual NIC is not supported on WMCO-managed Windows instances.

You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster using an account with cluster-admin permissions.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have installed your cluster using installer-provisioned infrastructure, or using user-provisioned infrastructure with the platform: none field set in your install-config.yaml file.

You have configured hybrid networking with OVN-Kubernetes for your cluster. This must be completed during the installation of your cluster. For more information, see Configuring hybrid networking.

You are running an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster version 4.6.8 or later.


Windows instances deployed by the WMCO are configured with the containerd container runtime. Because WMCO installs and manages the runtime, it is recommanded that you do not manually install containerd on nodes.
For the comprehensive prerequisites for the Windows Machine Config Operator, see Understanding Windows container workloads.
Installing the Windows Machine Config Operator
You can install the Windows Machine Config Operator using either the web console or OpenShift CLI (oc).

Installing the Windows Machine Config Operator using the web console
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console to install the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO).

Dual NIC is not supported on WMCO-managed Windows instances.
From the Administrator perspective in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console, navigate to the Operators -> OperatorHub page.

Use the Filter by keyword box to search for Windows Machine Config Operator in the catalog. Click the Windows Machine Config Operator tile.

Review the information about the Operator and click Install.

On the Install Operator page:


Click Install. The WMCO is now listed on the Installed Operators page.

Verify that the Status shows Succeeded to confirm successful installation of the WMCO.
Installing the Windows Machine Config Operator using the CLI
You can use the OpenShift CLI (oc) to install the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO).

Dual NIC is not supported on WMCO-managed Windows instances.
Create a namespace for the WMCO.

Create the Operator group for the WMCO.

Subscribe the namespace to the WMCO.

Verify the WMCO installation:
Configuring a secret for the Windows Machine Config Operator
To run the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO), you must create a secret in the WMCO namespace containing a private key. This is required to allow the WMCO to communicate with the Windows virtual machine (VM).

You installed the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO) using Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM).

You created a PEM-encoded file containing an RSA key.


Define the secret required to access the Windows VMs:


You must create the private key in the WMCO namespace, like openshift-windows-machine-config-operator.


It is recommended to use a different private key than the one used when installing the cluster.
Additional resources
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access

Adding Operators to a cluster.