Understanding Windows container workloads

Red Hat OpenShift support for Windows Containers provides built-in support for running Microsoft Windows Server containers on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". For those that administer heterogeneous environments with a mix of Linux and Windows workloads, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" allows you to deploy Windows workloads running on Windows Server containers while also providing traditional Linux workloads hosted on Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) or Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL).

Multi-tenancy for clusters that have Windows nodes is not supported. Clusters are considered multi-tenant when multiple workloads operate on shared infrastructure and resources. If one or more workloads running on an infrastructure cannot be trusted, the multi-tenant environment is considered hostile.

Hostile multi-tenant clusters introduce security concerns in all Kubernetes environments. Additional security features like pod security policies, or more fine-grained role-based access control (RBAC) for nodes, make exploiting your environment more difficult. However, if you choose to run hostile multi-tenant workloads, a hypervisor is the only security option you should use. The security domain for Kubernetes encompasses the entire cluster, not an individual node. For these types of hostile multi-tenant workloads, you should use physically isolated clusters.

Windows Server Containers provide resource isolation using a shared kernel but are not intended to be used in hostile multitenancy scenarios. Scenarios that involve hostile multitenancy should use Hyper-V Isolated Containers to strongly isolate tenants.
Windows Machine Config Operator prerequisites
The following information details the supported platform versions, Windows Server versions, and networking configurations for the Windows Machine Config Operator. See the vSphere documentation for any information that is relevant to only that platform.

WMCO 10.y supported platforms and Windows Server versions
The following table lists the Windows Server versions that are supported by WMCO 10.y, based on the applicable platform. Windows Server versions not listed are not supported and attempting to use them will cause errors. To prevent these errors, use only an appropriate version for your platform.
Supported networking
Hybrid networking with OVN-Kubernetes is the only supported networking configuration. See the additional resources below for more information on this functionality. The following tables outline the type of networking configuration and Windows Server versions to use based on your platform. You must specify the network configuration when you install the cluster.

The WMCO does not support OVN-Kubernetes without hybrid networking or OpenShift SDN.


See Configuring hybrid networking with OVN-Kubernetes
Windows workload management
To run Windows workloads in your cluster, you must first install the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO). The WMCO is a Linux-based Operator that runs on Linux-based control plane and compute nodes. The WMCO orchestrates the process of deploying and managing Windows workloads on a cluster.


Before deploying Windows workloads, you must create a Windows compute node and have it join the cluster. The Windows node hosts the Windows workloads in a cluster, and can run alongside other Linux-based compute nodes. You can create a Windows compute node by creating a Windows compute machine set to host Windows Server compute machines. You must apply a Windows-specific label to the compute machine set that specifies a Windows OS image.

The WMCO watches for machines with the Windows label. After a Windows compute machine set is detected and its respective machines are provisioned, the WMCO configures the underlying Windows virtual machine (VM) so that it can join the cluster as a compute node.


The WMCO expects a predetermined secret in its namespace containing a private key that is used to interact with the Windows instance. WMCO checks for this secret during boot up time and creates a user data secret which you must reference in the Windows MachineSet object that you created. Then the WMCO populates the user data secret with a public key that corresponds to the private key. With this data in place, the cluster can connect to the Windows VM using an SSH connection.

After the cluster establishes a connection with the Windows VM, you can manage the Windows node using similar practices as you would a Linux-based node.

The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console provides most of the same monitoring capabilities for Windows nodes that are available for Linux nodes. However, the ability to monitor workload graphs for pods running on Windows nodes is not available at this time.
Scheduling Windows workloads to a Windows node can be done with typical pod scheduling practices like taints, tolerations, and node selectors; alternatively, you can differentiate your Windows workloads from Linux workloads and other Windows-versioned workloads by using a RuntimeClass object.
Windows node services
The following Windows-specific services are installed on each Windows node:
Known limitations
Note the following limitations when working with Windows nodes managed by the WMCO (Windows nodes):

The following "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" features are not supported on Windows nodes:

The following Red Hat features are not supported on Windows nodes:

Windows nodes do not support pulling container images from private registries. You can use images from public registries or pre-pull the images.

Windows nodes do not support workloads created by using deployment configs. You can use a deployment or other method to deploy workloads.

Windows nodes are not supported in clusters that are in a disconnected environment.

Red Hat OpenShift support for Windows Containers does not support adding Windows nodes to a cluster through a trunk port. The only supported networking configuration for adding Windows nodes is through an access port that carries traffic for the VLAN.

Kubernetes has identified the following node feature limitations :

Kubernetes has identified several API compatibility issues.