Cluster Observability Operator release notes

The Cluster Observability Operator is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
The Cluster Observability Operator (COO) is an optional "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" Operator that enables administrators to create standalone monitoring stacks that are independently configurable for use by different services and users.

The COO complements the built-in monitoring capabilities of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". You can deploy it in parallel with the default platform and user workload monitoring stacks managed by the Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO).

These release notes track the development of the Cluster Observability Operator in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".
Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.3
The following advisory is available for Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.3:

RHEA-2024:1744 Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.3


Bug fixes
Previously, if you tried to access the Prometheus web user interface (UI) at \http://<prometheus_url>:9090/graph, the following error message would display: Error opening React index.html: open web/ui/static/react/index.html: no such file or directory.
This release resolves the issue, and the Prometheus web UI now displays correctly. (COO-34)
Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.2
The following advisory is available for Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.2:

RHEA-2024:1534 Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.2


CVEs
CVE-2023-45142
Bug fixes
Previously, certain cluster service version (CSV) annotations were not included in the metadata for COO.
Because of these missing annotations, certain COO features and capabilities did not appear in the package manifest or in the OperatorHub user interface.
This release adds the missing annotations, thereby resolving this issue. (COO-11)

Previously, automatic updates of the COO did not work, and a newer version of the Operator did not automatically replace the older version, even though the newer version was available in OperatorHub.
This release resolves the issue. (COO-12)

Previously, Thanos Querier only listened for network traffic on port 9090 of 127.0.0.1 (localhost), which resulted in a 502 Bad Gateway error if you tried to reach the Thanos Querier service.
With this release, the Thanos Querier configuration has been updated so that the component now listens on the default port (10902), thereby resolving the issue.
As a result of this change, you can also now modify the port via server side apply (SSA) and add a proxy chain, if required. (COO-14)
Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.1
The following advisory is available for Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.1:

2024:0550 Cluster Observability Operator 0.1.1


New features and enhancements
This release updates the Cluster Observability Operator to support installing the Operator in restricted networks or disconnected environments.
Cluster Observability Operator 0.1
This release makes a Technology Preview version of the Cluster Observability Operator available on OperatorHub.