Installing the Cluster Observability Operator

The Cluster Observability Operator is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
As a cluster administrator, you can install or remove the Cluster Observability Operator (COO) from OperatorHub by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console. OperatorHub is a user interface that works in conjunction with Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), which installs and manages Operators on a cluster.
Installing the Cluster Observability Operator in the web console
Install the Cluster Observability Operator (COO) from OperatorHub by using the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.

You have logged in to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.


In the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console, click Operators -> OperatorHub.

Type cluster observability operator in the Filter by keyword box.

Click  Cluster Observability Operator in the list of results.

Read the information about the Operator, and review the following default installation settings:

Optional: Change default installation settings to suit your requirements.
For example, you can select to subscribe to a different update channel, to install an older released version of the Operator, or to require manual approval for updates to new versions of the Operator.

Click Install.


Go to Operators -> Installed Operators, and verify that the Cluster Observability Operator entry appears in the list.


Adding Operators to a cluster
Uninstalling the Cluster Observability Operator using the web console
If you have installed the Cluster Observability Operator (COO) by using OperatorHub, you can uninstall it in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.

You have logged in to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.


Go to Operators -> Installed Operators.

Locate the Cluster Observability Operator entry in the list.

Click . for this entry and select Uninstall Operator.


Go to Operators -> Installed Operators, and verify that the Cluster Observability Operator entry no longer appears in the list.