Configuring IAM for IBM Cloud

In environments where the cloud identity and access management (IAM) APIs are not reachable, you must put the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) into manual mode before you install the cluster.
Alternatives to storing administrator-level secrets in the kube-system project
The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) manages cloud provider credentials as Kubernetes custom resource definitions (CRDs). You can configure the CCO to suit the security requirements of your organization by setting different values for the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml file.

Storing an administrator-level credential secret in the cluster kube-system project is not supported for IBM Cloud(R); therefore, you must set the credentialsMode parameter for the CCO to Manual when installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and manage your cloud credentials manually.

Using manual mode allows each cluster component to have only the permissions it requires, without storing an administrator-level credential in the cluster. You can also use this mode if your environment does not have connectivity to the cloud provider public IAM endpoint. However, you must manually reconcile permissions with new release images for every upgrade. You must also manually supply credentials for every component that requests them.

About the Cloud Credential Operator
Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility
To create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster when the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) is operating in manual mode, extract and prepare the CCO utility (ccoctl) binary.

The ccoctl utility is a Linux binary that must run in a Linux environment.
You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform account with cluster administrator access.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).


Obtain the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Obtain the CCO container image from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Extract the ccoctl binary from the CCO container image within the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Change the permissions to make ccoctl executable by running the following command:


To verify that ccoctl is ready to use, display the help file by running the following command:


Rotating API keys for IBM Cloud(R)
Next steps
Installing a cluster on IBM Cloud(R) with customizations
Additional resources
Preparing to update a cluster with manually maintained credentials