Adding worker nodes to single-node OpenShift clusters

Single-node OpenShift clusters reduce the host prerequisites for deployment to a single host. This is useful for deployments in constrained environments or at the network edge. However, sometimes you need to add additional capacity to your cluster, for example, in telecommunications and network edge scenarios. In these scenarios, you can add worker nodes to the single-node cluster.

Unlike multi-node clusters, by default all ingress traffic is routed to the single control-plane node, even after adding additional worker nodes.
There are several ways that you can add worker nodes to a single-node cluster. You can add worker nodes to a cluster manually, using Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager, or by using the Assisted Installer REST API directly.

Adding worker nodes does not expand the cluster control plane, and it does not provide high availability to your cluster. For single-node OpenShift clusters, high availability is handled by failing over to another site. When adding worker nodes to single-node OpenShift clusters, a tested maximum of two worker nodes is recommended. Exceeding the recommended number of worker nodes might result in lower overall performance, including cluster failure.
To add worker nodes, you must have access to the OpenShift Cluster Manager. This method is not supported when using the Agent-based installer to install a cluster in a disconnected environment.
Requirements for installing single-node OpenShift worker nodes
To install a single-node OpenShift worker node, you must address the following requirements:

Administration host: You must have a computer to prepare the ISO and to monitor the installation.

Production-grade server: Installing single-node OpenShift worker nodes requires a server with sufficient resources to run Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform services and a production workload.

Networking: The worker node server must have access to the internet or access to a local registry if it is not connected to a routable network. The worker node server must have a DHCP reservation or a static IP address and be able to access the single-node OpenShift cluster Kubernetes API, ingress route, and cluster node domain names. You must configure the DNS to resolve the IP address to each of the following fully qualified domain names (FQDN) for the single-node OpenShift cluster:


Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation

Recommended practices for scaling the cluster

User-provisioned DNS requirements

Creating a bootable ISO image on a USB drive

Booting from an ISO image served over HTTP using the Redfish API

Deleting nodes from a cluster
Adding worker nodes using the Assisted Installer and OpenShift Cluster Manager
You can add worker nodes to single-node OpenShift clusters that were created on Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager using the Assisted Installer.

Adding worker nodes to single-node OpenShift clusters is only supported for clusters running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.11 and up.
Have access to a single-node OpenShift cluster installed using Assisted Installer.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Log in as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

Ensure that all the required DNS records exist for the cluster that you are adding the worker node to.


Log in to OpenShift Cluster Manager and click the single-node cluster that you want to add a worker node to.

Click Add hosts, and download the discovery ISO for the new worker node, adding SSH public key and configuring cluster-wide proxy settings as required.

Boot the target host using the discovery ISO, and wait for the host to be discovered in the console. After the host is discovered, start the installation.

As the installation proceeds, the installation generates pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) for the worker node. When prompted, approve the pending CSRs to complete the installation.


New worker nodes will be encrypted using the same method as the original cluster.
User-provisioned DNS requirements

Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
Adding worker nodes using the Assisted Installer API
You can add worker nodes to single-node OpenShift clusters using the Assisted Installer REST API. Before you add worker nodes, you must log in to OpenShift Cluster Manager and authenticate against the API.

Authenticating against the Assisted Installer REST API
Before you can use the Assisted Installer REST API, you must authenticate against the API using a JSON web token (JWT) that you generate.

Log in to OpenShift Cluster Manager as a user with cluster creation privileges.

Install jq.


Log in to OpenShift Cluster Manager and copy your API token.

Set the $OFFLINE_TOKEN variable using the copied API token by running the following command:

Set the $JWT_TOKEN variable using the previously set $OFFLINE_TOKEN variable:


Optional: Check that you can access the API by running the following command:
Adding worker nodes using the Assisted Installer REST API
You can add worker nodes to clusters using the Assisted Installer REST API.

Install the OpenShift Cluster Manager CLI (ocm).

Log in to OpenShift Cluster Manager as a user with cluster creation privileges.

Install jq.

Ensure that all the required DNS records exist for the cluster that you are adding the worker node to.


Authenticate against the Assisted Installer REST API and generate a JSON web token (JWT) for your session. The generated JWT token is valid for 15 minutes only.

Set the $API_URL variable by running the following command:

Import the single-node OpenShift cluster by running the following commands:

Generate the InfraEnv resource for the cluster and set the $INFRA_ENV_ID variable by running the following commands:

Get the URL of the discovery ISO for the cluster worker node by running the following command:

Download the ISO:

Boot the new worker host from the downloaded rhcos-live-minimal.iso.

Get the list of hosts in the cluster that are not installed. Keep running the following command until the new host shows up:

Set the $HOST_ID variable for the new worker node, for example:

Check that the host is ready to install by running the following command:

When the previous command shows that the host is ready, start the installation using the /v2/infra-envs/{infra_env_id}/hosts/{host_id}/actions/install API by running the following command:

As the installation proceeds, the installation generates pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) for the worker node.

Optional: Run the following command to see all the events for the cluster:

Log in to the cluster and approve the pending CSRs to complete the installation.


Check that the new worker node was successfully added to the cluster with a status of Ready:


User-provisioned DNS requirements

Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
Adding worker nodes to single-node OpenShift clusters manually
You can add a worker node to a single-node OpenShift cluster manually by booting the worker node from Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) ISO and by using the cluster worker.ign file to join the new worker node to the cluster.

Install a single-node OpenShift cluster on bare metal.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Log in as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

Ensure that all the required DNS records exist for the cluster that you are adding the worker node to.


Set the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version:

Set the host architecture:

Get the worker.ign data from the running single-node cluster by running the following command:

Host the worker.ign file on a web server accessible from your network.

Download the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installer and make it available for use by running the following commands:

Retrieve the RHCOS ISO URL:

Download the RHCOS ISO:

Use the RHCOS ISO and the hosted worker.ign file to install the worker node:

As the installation proceeds, the installation generates pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) for the worker node. When prompted, approve the pending CSRs to complete the installation.

When the install is complete, reboot the host. The host joins the cluster as a new worker node.


Check that the new worker node was successfully added to the cluster with a status of Ready:


User-provisioned DNS requirements

Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.