Creating infrastructure nodes

You can use the advanced machine management and scaling capabilities only in clusters where the Machine API is operational. Clusters with user-provisioned infrastructure require additional validation and configuration to use the Machine API.

Clusters with the infrastructure platform type none cannot use the Machine API. This limitation applies even if the compute machines that are attached to the cluster are installed on a platform that supports the feature. This parameter cannot be changed after installation.

To view the platform type for your cluster, run the following command:

$ oc get infrastructure cluster -o jsonpath='{.status.platform}'
You can use infrastructure machine sets to create machines that host only infrastructure components, such as the default router, the integrated container image registry, and the components for cluster metrics and monitoring. These infrastructure machines are not counted toward the total number of subscriptions that are required to run the environment.

In a production deployment, it is recommended that you deploy at least three machine sets to hold infrastructure components. Both OpenShift Logging and Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh deploy Elasticsearch, which requires three instances to be installed on different nodes. Each of these nodes can be deployed to different availability zones for high availability. This configuration requires three different machine sets, one for each availability zone. In global Azure regions that do not have multiple availability zones, you can use availability sets to ensure high availability.

After adding the NoSchedule taint on the infrastructure node, existing DNS pods running on that node are marked as misscheduled. You must either delete or add toleration on misscheduled DNS pods.
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform infrastructure components
Each self-managed Red Hat OpenShift subscription includes entitlements for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and other OpenShift-related components. These entitlements are included for running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform control plane and infrastructure workloads and do not need to be accounted for during sizing.

To qualify as an infrastructure node and use the included entitlement, only components that are supporting the cluster, and not part of an end-user application, can run on those instances. Examples include the following components:

Kubernetes and Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform control plane services

The default router

The integrated container image registry

The HAProxy-based Ingress Controller

The cluster metrics collection, or monitoring service, including components for monitoring user-defined projects

Cluster aggregated logging

Red Hat Quay

Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation

Red Hat Advanced Cluster Manager

Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes

Red Hat OpenShift GitOps

Red Hat OpenShift Pipelines

Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh


Any node that runs any other container, pod, or component is a worker node that your subscription must cover.

For information about infrastructure nodes and which components can run on infrastructure nodes, see the "Red Hat OpenShift control plane and infrastructure nodes" section in the OpenShift sizing and subscription guide for enterprise Kubernetes document.

To create an infrastructure node, you can use a machine set, label the node, or use a machine config pool.

Creating an infrastructure node
See Creating infrastructure machine sets for installer-provisioned infrastructure environments or for any cluster where the control plane nodes are managed by the machine API.
Requirements of the cluster dictate that infrastructure, also called infra nodes, be provisioned. The installer only provides provisions for control plane and worker nodes. Worker nodes can be designated as infrastructure nodes or application, also called app, nodes through labeling.

Add a label to the worker node that you want to act as application node:

Add a label to the worker nodes that you want to act as infrastructure nodes:

Check to see if applicable nodes now have the infra role and app roles:

Create a default cluster-wide node selector. The default node selector is applied to pods created in all namespaces. This creates an intersection with any existing node selectors on a pod, which additionally constrains the pod's selector.


You can now move infrastructure resources to the newly labeled infra nodes.

Moving resources to infrastructure machine sets