Preparing to install a cluster that uses SR-IOV or OVS-DPDK on OpenStack

Before you install a "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster that uses single-root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) or Open vSwitch with the Data Plane Development Kit (OVS-DPDK) on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP), you must understand the requirements for each technology and then perform preparatory tasks.
Requirements for clusters on RHOSP that use either SR-IOV or OVS-DPDK
If you use SR-IOV or OVS-DPDK with your deployment, you must meet the following requirements:

RHOSP compute nodes must use a flavor that supports huge pages.


Requirements for clusters on RHOSP that use SR-IOV
To use single-root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) with your deployment, you must meet the following requirements:

Plan your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) SR-IOV deployment.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" must support the NICs that you use. For a list of supported NICs, see "About Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) hardware networks" in the "Hardware networks" subsection of the "Networking" documentation.

For each node that will have an attached SR-IOV NIC, your RHOSP cluster must have:

SR-IOV deployments often employ performance optimizations, such as dedicated or isolated CPUs. For maximum performance, configure your underlying RHOSP deployment to use these optimizations, and then run "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" compute machines on the optimized infrastructure.
Requirements for clusters on RHOSP that use OVS-DPDK
To use Open vSwitch with the Data Plane Development Kit (OVS-DPDK) with your deployment, you must meet the following requirements:

Plan your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) OVS-DPDK deployment by referring to Planning your OVS-DPDK deployment in the Network Functions Virtualization Planning and Configuration Guide.

Configure your RHOSP OVS-DPDK deployment according to Configuring an OVS-DPDK deployment in the Network Functions Virtualization Planning and Configuration Guide.
Preparing to install a cluster that uses SR-IOV
You must configure RHOSP before you install a cluster that uses SR-IOV on it.

When installing a cluster using SR-IOV, you must deploy clusters using cgroup v1. For more information, Enabling Linux control group version 1 (cgroup v1).

Creating SR-IOV networks for compute machines
If your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) deployment supports single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV), you can provision SR-IOV networks that compute machines run on.

The following instructions entail creating an external flat network and an external, VLAN-based network that can be attached to a compute machine. Depending on your RHOSP deployment, other network types might be required.
Your cluster supports SR-IOV.

You created radio and uplink provider networks as part of your RHOSP deployment. The names radio and uplink are used in all example commands to represent these networks.


On a command line, create a radio RHOSP network:

Create an uplink RHOSP network:

Create a subnet for the radio network:

Create a subnet for the uplink network:
Preparing to install a cluster that uses OVS-DPDK
You must configure RHOSP before you install a cluster that uses SR-IOV on it.

Complete Creating a flavor and deploying an instance for OVS-DPDK before you install a cluster on RHOSP.


After you perform preinstallation tasks, install your cluster by following the most relevant "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on RHOSP installation instructions. Then, perform the tasks under "Next steps" on this page.
Next steps
For either type of deployment:

To complete SR-IOV configuration after you deploy your cluster:

Consult the following references after you deploy your cluster to improve its performance: