Reviewing monitoring dashboards

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} provides a comprehensive set of monitoring dashboards that help you understand the state of cluster components and user-defined workloads.

Use the Administrator perspective to access dashboards for the core "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" components, including the following items:

API performance

etcd

Kubernetes compute resources

Kubernetes network resources

Prometheus

USE method dashboards relating to cluster and node performance

Node performance metrics



Use the Developer perspective to access Kubernetes compute resources dashboards that provide the following application metrics for a selected project:

CPU usage

Memory usage

Bandwidth information

Packet rate information



In the Developer perspective, you can view dashboards for only one project at a time.
Reviewing monitoring dashboards as a cluster administrator
In the Administrator perspective, you can view dashboards relating to core "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster components.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.


In the Administrator perspective in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console, navigate to Observe -> Dashboards.

Choose a dashboard in the Dashboard list. Some dashboards, such as etcd and Prometheus dashboards, produce additional sub-menus when selected.

Optional: Select a time range for the graphs in the Time Range list.

Optional: Select a Refresh Interval.

Hover over each of the graphs within a dashboard to display detailed information about specific items.
Reviewing monitoring dashboards as a developer
In the Developer perspective, you can view dashboards relating to a selected project. You must have access to monitor a project to view dashboard information for it.

You have access to the cluster as a developer or as a user.

You have view permissions for the project that you are viewing the dashboard for.


In the Developer perspective in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console, navigate to Observe -> Dashboard.

Select a project from the Project: drop-down list.

Select a dashboard from the Dashboard drop-down list to see the filtered metrics.

Optional: Select a time range for the graphs in the Time Range list.

Optional: Select a Refresh Interval.

Hover over each of the graphs within a dashboard to display detailed information about specific items.


Monitoring project and application metrics using the Developer perspective
Next steps
Accessing third-party monitoring APIs