Backing up applications on ROSA clusters using OADP

You can use OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) clusters to back up and restore application data.

ROSA is a fully-managed, turnkey application platform that allows you to deliver value to your customers by building and deploying applications.

ROSA provides seamless integration with a wide range of Amazon Web Services compute, database, analytics, machine learning, networking, mobile, and other services to speed up the building and delivery of differentiating experiences to your customers.

You can subscribe to the service directly from your AWS account.

After you create your clusters, you can operate your clusters with the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or through Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager. You can also use ROSA with OpenShift APIs and command-line interface (CLI) tools.

For additional information about ROSA installation, see Installing Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) interactive walkthrough.

Before installing OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP), you must set up role and policy credentials for OADP so that it can use the Amazon Web Services (AWS) API.

This process is performed in the following two stages:

Prepare AWS credentials

Install the OADP Operator and give it an IAM role
Preparing AWS credentials for OADP
An Amazon Web Services (AWS) account must be prepared and configured to accept an OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) installation.

Create the following environment variables by running the following commands:

On the AWS account, create an IAM policy to allow access to AWS S3:

Create an IAM role trust policy for the cluster:

Attach the IAM policy to the IAM role by running the following command:
Installing the OADP Operator and providing the IAM role
AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) is a global web service that provides short-term credentials for IAM or federated users. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" (ROSA) with STS is the recommended credential mode for ROSA clusters. This document describes how to install OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) on ROSA with AWS STS.

Restic and Kopia are not supported in the OADP on ROSA with AWS STS environment. Verify that the Restic and Kopia node agent is disabled. For backing up volumes, OADP on ROSA with AWS STS supports only native snapshots and Container Storage Interface (CSI) snapshots.
In an Amazon ROSA cluster that uses STS authentication, restoring backed-up data in a different AWS region is not supported.

The Data Mover feature is not currently supported in ROSA clusters. You can use native AWS S3 tools for moving data.
An "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" ROSA cluster with the required access and tokens. For instructions, see the previous procedure Preparing AWS credentials for OADP. If you plan to use two different clusters for backing up and restoring, you must prepare AWS credentials, including ROLE_ARN, for each cluster.


Create an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" secret from your AWS token file by entering the following commands:

Install the OADP Operator:

Create AWS cloud storage using your AWS credentials by entering the following command:

Check your application's storage default storage class by entering the following command:

Get the storage class by running the following command:

Create the DataProtectionApplication resource to configure the connection to the storage where the backups and volume snapshots are stored:


If you are using CSI or non-CSI volumes, deploy a Data Protection Application by entering the following command:


The enable parameter of restic is set to false in this configuration, because OADP does not support Restic in ROSA environments.

If you use OADP 1.2, replace this configuration:

nodeAgent:
  enable: false
  uploaderType: restic
with the following configuration:

restic:
  enable: false
If you want to use two different clusters for backing up and restoring, the two clusters must have the same AWS S3 storage names in both the cloud storage CR and the OADP DataProtectionApplication configuration.
Installing from OperatorHub using the web console.

Backing up applications
Example: Backing up workload on OADP ROSA STS, with an optional cleanup
Performing a backup with OADP and ROSA STS
The following example hello-world application has no persistent volumes (PVs) attached. Perform a backup with OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) STS.

Either Data Protection Application (DPA) configuration will work.

Create a workload to back up by running the following commands:

Expose the route by running the following command:

Check that the application is working by running the following command:

Back up the workload by running the following command:

Wait until the backup is completed and then run the following command:

Delete the demo workload by running the following command:

Restore the workload from the backup by running the following command:

Wait for the Restore to finish by running the following command:

Check that the workload is restored by running the following command:

Check the JSONPath by running the following command:


For troubleshooting tips, see the OADP team’s troubleshooting documentation.
Cleaning up a cluster after a backup with OADP and ROSA STS
If you need to uninstall the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) Operator together with the backups and the S3 bucket from this example, follow these instructions.

Delete the workload by running the following command:

Delete the Data Protection Application (DPA) by running the following command:

Delete the cloud storage by running the following command:

If the Operator is no longer required, remove it by running the following command:

Remove the namespace from the Operator:

If the backup and restore resources are no longer required, remove them from the cluster by running the following command:

To delete backup, restore and remote objects in AWS S3 run the following command:

If you no longer need the Custom Resource Definitions (CRD), remove them from the cluster by running the following command:

Delete the AWS S3 bucket by running the following commands:

Detach the policy from the role by running the following command:

Delete the role by running the following command: