Mirroring images for a disconnected installation

You can ensure your clusters only use container images that satisfy your organizational controls on external content. Before you install a cluster on infrastructure that you provision in a restricted network, you must mirror the required container images into that environment. To mirror container images, you must have a registry for mirroring.

You must have access to the internet to obtain the necessary container images. In this procedure, you place your mirror registry on a mirror host that has access to both your network and the internet. If you do not have access to a mirror host, use the Mirroring Operator catalogs for use with disconnected clusters procedure to copy images to a device you can move across network boundaries with.
Prerequisites
You must have a container image registry that supports Docker v2-2 in the location that will host the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, such as one of the following registries:

If you do not already have an existing solution for a container image registry, subscribers of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" are provided a mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift. The mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift is included with your subscription and is a small-scale container registry that can be used to mirror the required container images of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" in disconnected installations.
About the mirror registry
You can mirror the images that are required for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and subsequent product updates to a container mirror registry such as Red Hat Quay, JFrog Artifactory, Sonatype Nexus Repository, or Harbor. If you do not have access to a large-scale container registry, you can use the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, a small-scale container registry included with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscriptions.

You can use any container registry that supports Docker v2-2, such as Red Hat Quay, the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, Artifactory, Sonatype Nexus Repository, or Harbor. Regardless of your chosen registry, the procedure to mirror content from Red Hat hosted sites on the internet to an isolated image registry is the same. After you mirror the content, you configure each cluster to retrieve this content from your mirror registry.

The OpenShift image registry cannot be used as the target registry because it does not support pushing without a tag, which is required during the mirroring process.
If choosing a container registry that is not the mirror registry for Red Hat OpenShift, it must be reachable by every machine in the clusters that you provision. If the registry is unreachable, installation, updating, or normal operations such as workload relocation might fail. For that reason, you must run mirror registries in a highly available way, and the mirror registries must at least match the production availability of your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" clusters.

When you populate your mirror registry with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" images, you can follow two scenarios. If you have a host that can access both the internet and your mirror registry, but not your cluster nodes, you can directly mirror the content from that machine. This process is referred to as connected mirroring. If you have no such host, you must mirror the images to a file system and then bring that host or removable media into your restricted environment. This process is referred to as disconnected mirroring.

For mirrored registries, to view the source of pulled images, you must review the Trying to access log entry in the CRI-O logs. Other methods to view the image pull source, such as using the crictl images command on a node, show the non-mirrored image name, even though the image is pulled from the mirrored location.

Red Hat does not test third party registries with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".
For information about viewing the CRI-O logs to view the image source, see Viewing the image pull source.
Preparing your mirror host
Before you perform the mirror procedure, you must prepare the host to retrieve content and push it to the remote location.

Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) to interact with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15". Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v"4.15" Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v"4.15" Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v"4.15" macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Configuring credentials that allow images to be mirrored
Create a container image registry credentials file that allows mirroring images from Red Hat to your mirror.

Do not use this image registry credentials file as the pull secret when you install a cluster. If you provide this file when you install cluster, all of the machines in the cluster will have write access to your mirror registry.
This process requires that you have write access to a container image registry on the mirror registry and adds the credentials to a registry pull secret.
You configured a mirror registry to use in your disconnected environment.

You identified an image repository location on your mirror registry to mirror images into.

You provisioned a mirror registry account that allows images to be uploaded to that image repository.


Complete the following steps on the installation host:

Download your registry.redhat.io pull secret from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager.

Make a copy of your pull secret in JSON format:

Generate the base64-encoded user name and password or token for your mirror registry:

Edit the JSON
file and add a section that describes your registry to it:
Mirroring the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" image repository
Mirror the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" image repository to your registry to use during cluster installation or upgrade.

Your mirror host has access to the internet.

You configured a mirror registry to use in your restricted network and
can access the certificate and credentials that you configured.

You downloaded the pull secret from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager and modified it to include authentication to your mirror repository.

If you use self-signed certificates, you have specified a Subject Alternative Name in the certificates.


Complete the following steps on the mirror host:

Review the
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" downloads page
to determine the version of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" that you want to install and determine the corresponding tag on the Repository Tags page.

Set the required environment variables:

Mirror the version images to the mirror registry:

To create the installation program that is based on the content that you
mirrored, extract it and pin it to the release:

For clusters using installer-provisioned infrastructure, run the following command:
The Cluster Samples Operator in a disconnected environment
In a disconnected environment, you must take additional steps after you install a cluster to configure the Cluster Samples Operator. Review the following information in preparation.

Cluster Samples Operator assistance for mirroring
During installation, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" creates a config map named imagestreamtag-to-image in the openshift-cluster-samples-operator namespace. The imagestreamtag-to-image config map contains an entry, the populating image, for each image stream tag.

The format of the key for each entry in the data field in the config map is <image_stream_name>_<image_stream_tag_name>.

During a disconnected installation of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", the status of the Cluster Samples Operator is set to Removed. If you choose to change it to Managed, it installs samples.

The use of samples in a network-restricted or discontinued environment may require access to services external to your network. Some example services include: Github, Maven Central, npm, RubyGems, PyPi and others. There might be additional steps to take that allow the cluster samples operators's objects to reach the services they require.
You can use this config map as a reference for which images need to be mirrored for your image streams to import.

While the Cluster Samples Operator is set to Removed, you can create your mirrored registry, or determine which existing mirrored registry you want to use.

Mirror the samples you want to the mirrored registry using the new config map as your guide.

Add any of the image streams you did not mirror to the skippedImagestreams list of the Cluster Samples Operator configuration object.

Set samplesRegistry of the Cluster Samples Operator configuration object to the mirrored registry.

Then set the Cluster Samples Operator to Managed to install the image streams you have mirrored.
Mirroring Operator catalogs for use with disconnected clusters
You can mirror the Operator contents of a Red Hat-provided catalog, or a custom catalog, into a container image registry using the oc adm catalog mirror command. The target registry must support Docker v2-2. For a cluster on a restricted network, this registry can be one that the cluster has network access to, such as a mirror registry created during a restricted network cluster installation.

The OpenShift image registry cannot be used as the target registry because it does not support pushing without a tag, which is required during the mirroring process.

Running oc adm catalog mirror might result in the following error: error: unable to retrieve source image. This error occurs when image indexes include references to images that no longer exist on the image registry. Image indexes might retain older references to allow users running those images an upgrade path to newer points on the upgrade graph. As a temporary workaround, you can use the --skip-missing option to bypass the error and continue downloading the image index. For more information, see Service Mesh Operator mirroring failed.
The oc adm catalog mirror command also automatically mirrors the index image that is specified during the mirroring process, whether it be a Red Hat-provided index image or your own custom-built index image, to the target registry. You can then use the mirrored index image to create a catalog source that allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to load the mirrored catalog onto your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

Using Operator Lifecycle Manager on restricted networks


Prerequisites
Mirroring Operator catalogs for use with disconnected clusters has the following prerequisites:

Workstation with unrestricted network access.

podman version 1.9.3 or later.

If you want to filter, or prune, an existing catalog and selectively mirror only a subset of Operators, see the following sections:

If you want to mirror a Red Hat-provided catalog, run the following command on your workstation with unrestricted network access to authenticate with registry.redhat.io:

Access to a mirror registry that supports
Docker v2-2.

On your mirror registry, decide which repository, or namespace, to use for storing mirrored Operator content. For example, you might create an olm-mirror repository.

If your mirror registry does not have internet access, connect removable media to your workstation with unrestricted network access.

If you are working with private registries, including registry.redhat.io, set the REG_CREDS environment variable to the file path of your registry credentials for use in later steps. For example, for the podman CLI:
Extracting and mirroring catalog contents
The oc adm catalog mirror command extracts the contents of an index image to generate the manifests required for mirroring. The default behavior of the command generates manifests, then automatically mirrors all of the image content from the index image, as well as the index image itself, to your mirror registry.

Alternatively, if your mirror registry is on a completely disconnected, or airgapped, host, you can first mirror the content to removable media, move the media to the disconnected environment, then mirror the content from the media to the registry.

Mirroring catalog contents to registries on the same network
If your mirror registry is co-located on the same network as your workstation with unrestricted network access, take the following actions on your workstation.

If your mirror registry requires authentication, run the following command to log in to the registry:

Run the following command to extract and mirror the content to the mirror registry:


Architecture and operating system support for Operators
Mirroring catalog contents to airgapped registries
If your mirror registry is on a completely disconnected, or airgapped, host, take the following actions.

Run the following command on your workstation with unrestricted network access to mirror the content to local files:

Copy the v2/ directory to removable media.

Physically remove the media and attach it to a host in the disconnected environment that has access to the mirror registry.

If your mirror registry requires authentication, run the following command on your host in the disconnected environment to log in to the registry:

Run the following command from the parent directory containing the v2/ directory to upload the images from local files to the mirror registry:

Run the oc adm catalog mirror command again. Use the newly mirrored index image as the source and the same mirror registry target used in the previous step:


After you mirror the catalog, you can continue with the remainder of your cluster installation. After your cluster installation has finished successfully, you must specify the manifests directory from this procedure to create the ImageContentSourcePolicy and CatalogSource objects. These objects are required to enable installation of Operators from OperatorHub.

Architecture and operating system support for Operators
Generated manifests
After mirroring Operator catalog content to your mirror registry, a manifests directory is generated in your current directory.

If you mirrored content to a registry on the same network, the directory name takes the following pattern:

manifests-<index_image_name>-<random_number>
If you mirrored content to a registry on a disconnected host in the previous section, the directory name takes the following pattern:

manifests-index/<repository>/<index_image_name>-<random_number>
The manifests directory name is referenced in subsequent procedures.
The manifests directory contains the following files, some of which might require further modification:

The catalogSource.yaml file is a basic definition for a CatalogSource object that is pre-populated with your index image tag and other relevant metadata. This file can be used as is or modified to add the catalog source to your cluster.

The imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml file defines an ImageContentSourcePolicy object that can configure nodes to translate between the image references stored in Operator manifests and the mirrored registry.

The mapping.txt file contains all of the source images and where to map them in the target registry. This file is compatible with the oc image mirror command and can be used to further customize the mirroring configuration.
Postinstallation requirements
After you mirror the catalog, you can continue with the remainder of your cluster installation. After your cluster installation has finished successfully, you must specify the manifests directory from this procedure to create the ImageContentSourcePolicy and CatalogSource objects. These objects are required to populate and enable installation of Operators from OperatorHub.

Populating OperatorHub from mirrored Operator catalogs

Updating or filtering a file-based catalog image
Next steps
Install a cluster on infrastructure that you provision in your restricted network, such as on
VMware vSphere,
bare metal, or Amazon Web Services.
Additional resources
See Gathering data about specific features for more information about using must-gather.