Google Compute Platform Filestore CSI Driver Operator

Overview
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore Storage.

Familiarity with persistent storage and configuring CSI volumes is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver.

To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to GCP Filestore Storage assets, you install the GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator and the GCP Filestore CSI driver in the openshift-cluster-csi-drivers namespace.

The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator does not provide a storage class by default, but you can create one if needed. The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage.

The GCP Filestore CSI driver enables you to create and mount GCP Filestore PVs.
About CSI
Storage vendors have traditionally provided storage drivers as part of Kubernetes. With the implementation of the Container Storage Interface (CSI), third-party providers can instead deliver storage plugins using a standard interface without ever having to change the core Kubernetes code.

CSI Operators give "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" users storage options, such as volume snapshots, that are not possible with in-tree volume plugins.
Installing the GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator
The Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator is not installed in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" by default. Use the following procedure to install the GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator in your cluster.

Access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.


To install the GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator from the web console:

Log in to the web console.

Enable the Filestore API in the GCE project by running the following command:

Install the GCP Filestore CSI Operator:

Install the GCP Filestore CSI Driver:


Enabling an API in your Google Cloud.

Enabling an API using the Google Cloud web console.
Creating a storage class for GCP Filestore Storage
After installing the Operator, you should create a storage class for dynamic provisioning of Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore volumes.

You are logged in to the running "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.


To create a storage class:

Create a storage class using the following example YAML file:

Specify the name of the VPC network where Filestore instances should be created in.
Destroying clusters and GCP Filestore
Typically, if you destroy a cluster, the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installer deletes all of the cloud resources that belong to that cluster. However, when a cluster is destroyed, Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore instances are not automatically deleted, so you must manually delete all persistent volume claims (PVCs) that use the Filestore storage class before destroying the cluster.

To delete all GCP Filestore PVCs:

List all PVCs that were created using the storage class filestore-csi:

Delete all of the PVCs listed by the previous command:
Additional resources
Configuring CSI volumes