Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator

Overview
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Microsoft Azure Disk Storage.

Familiarity with persistent storage and configuring CSI volumes is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver.

To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure Disk storage assets, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installs the Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator and the Azure Disk CSI driver by default in the openshift-cluster-csi-drivers namespace.

The Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator provides a storage class named managed-csi that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). The Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage. You can disable this default storage class if desired (see Managing the default storage class).

The Azure Disk CSI driver enables you to create and mount Azure Disk PVs.
About CSI
Storage vendors have traditionally provided storage drivers as part of Kubernetes. With the implementation of the Container Storage Interface (CSI), third-party providers can instead deliver storage plugins using a standard interface without ever having to change the core Kubernetes code.

CSI Operators give Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform users storage options, such as volume snapshots, that are not possible with in-tree volume plugins.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform provides automatic migration for the Azure Disk in-tree volume plugin to its equivalent CSI driver. For more information, see CSI automatic migration.
Creating a storage class with storage account type
Storage classes are used to differentiate and delineate storage levels and usages. By defining a storage class, you can obtain dynamically provisioned persistent volumes.

When creating a storage class, you can designate the storage account type. This corresponds to your Azure storage account SKU tier. Valid options are Standard_LRS, Premium_LRS, StandardSSD_LRS, UltraSSD_LRS, Premium_ZRS, StandardSSD_ZRS, and PremiumV2_LRS. For information about finding your Azure SKU tier, see SKU Types.

Both ZRS and PremiumV2_LRS have some region limitations. For information about these limitations, see ZRS limitations and Premium_LRS limitations.

Access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster with administrator rights


Use the following steps to create a storage class with a storage account type.

Create a storage class designating the storage account type using a YAML file similar to the following:

Ensure that the storage class was created by listing the storage classes:
User-managed encryption
The user-managed encryption feature allows you to provide keys during installation that encrypt Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform node root volumes, and enables all managed storage classes to use these keys to encrypt provisioned storage volumes. You must specify the custom key in the platform.<cloud_type>.defaultMachinePlatform field in the install-config YAML file.

This features supports the following storage types:

Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic Block storage (EBS)

Microsoft Azure Disk storage

Google Cloud Platform (GCP) persistent disk (PD) storage

IBM Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Block storage


If the OS (root) disk is encrypted, and there is no encrypted key defined in the storage class, Azure Disk CSI driver uses the OS disk encryption key by default to encrypt provisioned storage volumes.
For information about installing with user-managed encryption for Azure, see Enabling user-managed encryption for Azure.
Machine sets that deploy machines with ultra disks using PVCs
You can create a machine set running on Azure that deploys machines with ultra disks. Ultra disks are high-performance storage that are intended for use with the most demanding data workloads.

Both the in-tree plugin and CSI driver support using PVCs to enable ultra disks. You can also deploy machines with ultra disks as data disks without creating a PVC.

Microsoft Azure ultra disks documentation

Machine sets that deploy machines on ultra disks using in-tree PVCs

Machine sets that deploy machines on ultra disks as data disks


Creating machines with ultra disks by using machine sets
You can deploy machines with ultra disks on Azure by editing your machine set YAML file.

Have an existing Microsoft Azure cluster.


Copy an existing Azure MachineSet custom resource (CR) and edit it by running the following command:

Add the following lines in the positions indicated:

Create a machine set using the updated configuration by running the following command:

Create a storage class that contains the following YAML definition:

Create a persistent volume claim (PVC) to reference the ultra-disk-sc storage class that contains the following YAML definition:

Create a pod that contains the following YAML definition:


Validate that the machines are created by running the following command:

For a machine that is running and has a node attached, validate the partition by running the following command:


To use an ultra disk from within a pod, create a workload that uses the mount point. Create a YAML file similar to the following example:
Troubleshooting resources for machine sets that enable ultra disks
Use the information in this section to understand and recover from issues you might encounter.

Unable to mount a persistent volume claim backed by an ultra disk
If there is an issue mounting a persistent volume claim backed by an ultra disk, the pod becomes stuck in the ContainerCreating state and an alert is triggered.

For example, if the additionalCapabilities.ultraSSDEnabled parameter is not set on the machine that backs the node that hosts the pod, the following error message appears:

StorageAccountType UltraSSD_LRS can be used only when additionalCapabilities.ultraSSDEnabled is set.
To resolve this issue, describe the pod by running the following command:
Additional resources
Persistent storage using Azure Disk

Configuring CSI volumes