Secrets Store CSI driver

Overview
Kubernetes secrets are stored with Base64 encoding. etcd provides encryption at rest for these secrets, but when secrets are retrieved, they are decrypted and presented to the user. If role-based access control is not configured properly on your cluster, anyone with API or etcd access can retrieve or modify a secret. Additionally, anyone who is authorized to create a pod in a namespace can use that access to read any secret in that namespace.

To store and manage your secrets securely, you can configure the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Secrets Store Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator to mount secrets from an external secret management system, such as Azure Key Vault, by using a provider plugin. Applications can then use the secret, but the secret does not persist on the system after the application pod is destroyed.

The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator, secrets-store.csi.k8s.io, enables Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform to mount multiple secrets, keys, and certificates stored in enterprise-grade external secrets stores into pods as a volume. The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator communicates with the provider using gRPC to fetch the mount contents from the specified external secrets store. After the volume is attached, the data in it is mounted into the container's file system. Secrets store volumes are mounted in-line.

For more information about CSI inline volumes, see CSI inline ephemeral volumes.

The Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Familiarity with persistent storage and configuring CSI volumes is recommended when working with a CSI driver.

Secrets store providers
The following secrets store providers are available for use with the Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator:

AWS Secrets Manager

AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store

Azure Key Vault
About CSI
Storage vendors have traditionally provided storage drivers as part of Kubernetes. With the implementation of the Container Storage Interface (CSI), third-party providers can instead deliver storage plugins using a standard interface without ever having to change the core Kubernetes code.

CSI Operators give Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform users storage options, such as volume snapshots, that are not possible with in-tree volume plugins.
Installing the Secrets Store CSI driver
Access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

Administrator access to the cluster.


To install the Secrets Store CSI driver:

Install the Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator:

Create the ClusterCSIDriver instance for the driver (secrets-store.csi.k8s.io):


Mounting secrets from an external secrets store to a CSI volume
Uninstalling the Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator
Access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

Administrator access to the cluster.


To uninstall the Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator:

Stop all application pods that use the secrets-store.csi.k8s.io provider.

Remove any third-party provider plug-in for your chosen secret store.

Remove the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver and associated manifests:

Verify that the CSI driver pods are no longer running.

Uninstall the Secrets Store CSI Driver Operator:
Additional resources
Configuring CSI volumes