Using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" dashboard to get cluster information

The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console captures high-level information about the cluster.
About the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" dashboards page
Access the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" dashboard, which captures high-level information about the cluster, by navigating to Home -> Overview from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" dashboard provides various cluster information, captured in individual dashboard cards.

The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" dashboard consists of the following cards:

Details provides a brief overview of informational cluster details.

Cluster Inventory details number of resources and associated statuses. It is helpful when intervention is required to resolve problems, including information about:

Status helps administrators understand how cluster resources are consumed. Click on a resource to jump to a detailed page listing pods and nodes that consume the largest amount of the specified cluster resource (CPU, memory, or storage).

Cluster Utilization shows the capacity of various resources over a specified period of time, to help administrators understand the scale and frequency of high resource consumption, including information about:

Activity lists messages related to recent activity in the cluster, such as pod creation or virtual machine migration to another host.
Recognizing resource and project limits and quotas
You can view a graphical representation of available resources in the Topology view of the web console Developer perspective.

If a resource has a message about resource limitations or quotas being reached, a yellow border appears around the resource name. Click the resource to open a side panel to see the message. If the Topology view has been zoomed out, a yellow dot indicates that a message is available.

If you are using List View from the View Shortcuts menu, resources appear as a list. The Alerts column indicates if a message is available.