Preparing to update a cluster with manually maintained credentials

The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) Upgradable status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is False by default.

For minor releases, for example, from 4.12 to 4.13, this status prevents you from updating until you have addressed any updated permissions and annotated the CloudCredential resource to indicate that the permissions are updated as needed for the next version. This annotation changes the Upgradable status to True.

For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.13.0 to 4.13.1, no permissions are added or changed, so the update is not blocked.


Before updating a cluster with manually maintained credentials, you must accommodate any new or changed credentials in the release image for the version of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" you are updating to.
Update requirements for clusters with manually maintained credentials
Before you update a cluster that uses manually maintained credentials with the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO), you must update the cloud provider resources for the new release.

If the cloud credential management for your cluster was configured using the CCO utility (ccoctl), use the ccoctl utility to update the resources. Clusters that were configured to use manual mode without the ccoctl utility require manual updates for the resources.

After updating the cloud provider resources, you must update the upgradeable-to annotation for the cluster to indicate that it is ready to update.

The process to update the cloud provider resources and the upgradeable-to annotation can only be completed by using command line tools.
Cloud credential configuration options and update requirements by platform type
Some platforms only support using the CCO in one mode. For clusters that are installed on those platforms, the platform type determines the credentials update requirements.

For platforms that support using the CCO in multiple modes, you must determine which mode the cluster is configured to use and take the required actions for that configuration.



Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) and VMware vSphere
These platforms do not support using the CCO in manual mode. Clusters on these platforms handle changes in cloud provider resources automatically and do not require an update to the upgradeable-to annotation.
Alibaba Cloud, IBM Cloud, and Nutanix
Clusters installed on these platforms are configured using the ccoctl utility.
Microsoft Azure Stack Hub
These clusters use manual mode with long-term credentials and do not use the ccoctl utility.
Amazon Web Services (AWS), global Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
Clusters installed on these platforms support multiple CCO modes.


Determining the Cloud Credential Operator mode by using the web console

Determining the Cloud Credential Operator mode by using the CLI

Extracting and preparing credentials request resources

About the Cloud Credential Operator
Determining the Cloud Credential Operator mode by using the web console
You can determine what mode the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) is configured to use by using the web console.

Only Amazon Web Services (AWS), global Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) clusters support multiple CCO modes.
You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" account with cluster administrator permissions.


Log in to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console as a user with the cluster-admin role.

Navigate to Administration -> Cluster Settings.

On the Cluster Settings page, select the Configuration tab.

Under Configuration resource, select CloudCredential.

On the CloudCredential details page, select the YAML tab.

In the YAML block, check the value of spec.credentialsMode. The following values are possible, though not all are supported on all platforms:

AWS or GCP clusters that use mint mode only: To determine whether the cluster is operating without the root secret, navigate to Workloads -> Secrets and look for the root secret for your cloud provider.

AWS, GCP, or global Microsoft Azure clusters that use manual mode only: To determine whether the cluster is configured to create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster, you must check the cluster Authentication object YAML values.


If you are updating a cluster that has the CCO operating in mint or passthrough mode and the root secret is present, you do not need to update any cloud provider resources and can continue to the next part of the update process.

If your cluster is using the CCO in mint mode with the root secret removed, you must reinstate the credential secret with the administrator-level credential before continuing to the next part of the update process.

If your cluster was configured using the CCO utility (ccoctl), you must take the following actions:

If your cluster is using the CCO in manual mode but was not configured using the ccoctl utility, you must take the following actions:


Extracting and preparing credentials request resources
Determining the Cloud Credential Operator mode by using the CLI
You can determine what mode the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) is configured to use by using the CLI.

Only Amazon Web Services (AWS), global Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) clusters support multiple CCO modes.
You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" account with cluster administrator permissions.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Log in to oc on the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

To determine the mode that the CCO is configured to use, enter the following command:

AWS or GCP clusters that use mint mode only: To determine whether the cluster is operating without the root secret, run the following command:

AWS, GCP, or global Microsoft Azure clusters that use manual mode only: To determine whether the cluster is configured to create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster, run the following command:


If you are updating a cluster that has the CCO operating in mint or passthrough mode and the root secret is present, you do not need to update any cloud provider resources and can continue to the next part of the update process.

If your cluster is using the CCO in mint mode with the root secret removed, you must reinstate the credential secret with the administrator-level credential before continuing to the next part of the update process.

If your cluster was configured using the CCO utility (ccoctl), you must take the following actions:

If your cluster is using the CCO in manual mode but was not configured using the ccoctl utility, you must take the following actions:


Extracting and preparing credentials request resources
Extracting and preparing credentials request resources
Before updating a cluster that uses the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) in manual mode, you must extract and prepare the CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) for the new release.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc) that matches the version for your updated version.

Log in to the cluster as user with cluster-admin privileges.


Obtain the pull spec for the update that you want to apply by running the following command:

Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image that you want to use by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

For each CredentialsRequest CR in the release image, ensure that a namespace that matches the text in the spec.secretRef.namespace field exists in the cluster. This field is where the generated secrets that hold the credentials configuration are stored.

For any CredentialsRequest CR for which the cluster does not already have a namespace with the name specified in spec.secretRef.namespace, create the namespace by running the following command:


If the cloud credential management for your cluster was configured using the CCO utility (ccoctl), configure the ccoctl utility for a cluster update and use it to update your cloud provider resources.

If your cluster was not configured with the ccoctl utility, manually update your cloud provider resources.


Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility for a cluster update

Manually updating cloud provider resources
Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility for a cluster update
To upgrade a cluster that uses the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) in manual mode to create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster, extract and prepare the CCO utility (ccoctl) binary.

The ccoctl utility is a Linux binary that must run in a Linux environment.
You have access to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" account with cluster administrator access.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Your cluster was configured using the ccoctl utility to create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster.

You have extracted the CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image and ensured that a namespace that matches the text in the spec.secretRef.namespace field exists in the cluster.


Obtain the CCO container image from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Extract the ccoctl binary from the CCO container image within the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image by running the following command:

Change the permissions to make ccoctl executable by running the following command:


To verify that ccoctl is ready to use, display the help file by running the following command:
Updating cloud provider resources with the Cloud Credential Operator utility
The process for upgrading an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster that was configured using the CCO utility (ccoctl) is similar to creating the cloud provider resources during installation.

On AWS clusters, some ccoctl commands make AWS API calls to create or modify AWS resources. You can use the --dry-run flag to avoid making API calls. Using this flag creates JSON files on the local file system instead. You can review and modify the JSON files and then apply them with the AWS CLI tool using the --cli-input-json parameters.
You have extracted the CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image and ensured that a namespace that matches the text in the spec.secretRef.namespace field exists in the cluster.

You have extracted and configured the ccoctl binary from the release image.


Use the ccoctl tool to process all CredentialsRequest objects by running the command for your cloud provider. The following commands process CredentialsRequest objects:

Apply the secrets to your cluster by running the following command:


You can verify that the required provider resources and permissions policies are created by querying the cloud provider. For more information, refer to your cloud provider documentation on listing roles or service accounts.

Update the upgradeable-to annotation to indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade.


Indicating that the cluster is ready to upgrade
Manually updating cloud provider resources
Before upgrading a cluster with manually maintained credentials, you must create secrets for any new credentials for the release image that you are upgrading to. You must also review the required permissions for existing credentials and accommodate any new permissions requirements in the new release for those components.

You have extracted the CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" release image and ensured that a namespace that matches the text in the spec.secretRef.namespace field exists in the cluster.


Create YAML files with secrets for any CredentialsRequest custom resources that the new release image adds. The secrets must be stored using the namespace and secret name defined in the spec.secretRef for each CredentialsRequest object.

If the CredentialsRequest custom resources for any existing credentials that are stored in secrets have changed permissions requirements, update the permissions as required.


Update the upgradeable-to annotation to indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade.


Manually creating long-term credentials for AWS

Manually creating long-term credentials for Azure

Manually creating long-term credentials for Azure Stack Hub

Manually creating long-term credentials for GCP

Indicating that the cluster is ready to upgrade
Indicating that the cluster is ready to upgrade
The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) Upgradable status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is False by default.

For the release image that you are upgrading to, you have processed any new credentials manually or by using the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl).

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Log in to oc on the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

Edit the CloudCredential resource to add an upgradeable-to annotation within the metadata field by running the following command:


In the Administrator perspective of the web console, navigate to Administration -> Cluster Settings.

To view the CCO status details, click cloud-credential in the Cluster Operators list.

When the Upgradeable status in the Conditions section is True, begin the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" upgrade.