Hot-plugging VM disks

You can add or remove virtual disks without stopping your virtual machine (VM) or virtual machine instance (VMI).

Only data volumes and persistent volume claims (PVCs) can be hot plugged and hot-unplugged. You cannot hot plug or hot-unplug container disks.

A hot plugged disk remains to the VM even after reboot. You must detach the disk to remove it from the VM.

You can make a hot plugged disk persistent so that it is permanently mounted on the VM.

Each VM has a virtio-scsi controller so that hot plugged disks can use the scsi bus. The virtio-scsi controller overcomes the limitations of virtio while retaining its performance advantages. It is highly scalable and supports hot plugging over 4 million disks.

Regular virtio is not available for hot plugged disks because it is not scalable. Each virtio disk uses one of the limited PCI Express (PCIe) slots in the VM. PCIe slots are also used by other devices and must be reserved in advance. Therefore, slots might not be available on demand.
Hot plugging and hot unplugging a disk by using the web console
You can hot plug a disk by attaching it to a virtual machine (VM) while the VM is running by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

The hot plugged disk remains attached to the VM until you unplug it.

You can make a hot plugged disk persistent so that it is permanently mounted on the VM.

You must have a data volume or persistent volume claim (PVC) available for hot plugging.


Navigate to Virtualization -> VirtualMachines in the web console.

Select a running VM to view its details.

On the VirtualMachine details page, click Configuration -> Disks.

Add a hot plugged disk:

Optional: Unplug a hot plugged disk:

Optional: Make a hot plugged disk persistent:
Hot plugging and hot unplugging a disk by using the command line
You can hot plug and hot unplug a disk while a virtual machine (VM) is running by using the command line.

You can make a hot plugged disk persistent so that it is permanently mounted on the VM.

You must have at least one data volume or persistent volume claim (PVC) available for hot plugging.


Hot plug a disk by running the following command:

Hot unplug a disk by running the following command: