Using the virtctl and libguestfs CLI tools

You can manage OpenShift Virtualization resources by using the virtctl command line tool.

You can access and modify virtual machine (VM) disk images by using the libguestfs command line tool. You deploy libguestfs by using the virtctl libguestfs command.
Installing virtctl
To install virtctl on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9, Linux, Windows, and MacOS operating systems, you download and install the virtctl binary file.

To install virtctl on RHEL 8, you enable the OpenShift Virtualization repository and then install the kubevirt-virtctl package.

Installing the virtctl binary on RHEL 9, Linux, Windows, or macOS
You can download the virtctl binary for your operating system from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console and then install it.

Navigate to the Virtualization -> Overview page in the web console.

Click the Download virtctl link to download the virtctl binary for your operating system.

Install virtctl:
Installing the virtctl RPM on RHEL 8
You can install the virtctl RPM package on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8 by enabling the OpenShift Virtualization repository and installing the kubevirt-virtctl package.

Each host in your cluster must be registered with Red Hat Subscription Manager (RHSM) and have an active Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscription.


Enable the OpenShift Virtualization repository by using the subscription-manager CLI tool to run the following command:

Install the kubevirt-virtctl package by running the following command:
virtctl commands
The virtctl client is a command-line utility for managing OpenShift Virtualization resources.

The virtual machine (VM) commands also apply to virtual machine instances (VMIs) unless otherwise specified.
virtctl information commands
You use virtctl information commands to view information about the virtctl client.
VM information commands
You can use virtctl to view information about virtual machines (VMs) and virtual machine instances (VMIs).
VM manifest creation commands
You can use virtctl create commands to create manifests for virtual machines, instance types, and preferences.
VM management commands
You use virtctl virtual machine (VM) management commands to manage and migrate virtual machines (VMs) and virtual machine instances (VMIs).
VM connection commands
You use virtctl connection commands to expose ports and connect to virtual machines (VMs) and virtual machine instances (VMIs).
VM export commands
Use virtctl vmexport commands to create, download, or delete a volume exported from a VM, VM snapshot, or persistent volume claim (PVC). Certain manifests also contain a header secret, which grants access to the endpoint to import a disk image in a format that OpenShift Virtualization can use.
VM memory dump commands
You can use the virtctl memory-dump command to output a VM memory dump on a PVC. You can specify an existing PVC or use the --create-claim flag to create a new PVC.

The PVC volume mode must be FileSystem.

The PVC must be large enough to contain the memory dump.

You must enable the hot plug feature gate in the HyperConverged custom resource by running the following command:


You must use the virtctl vmexport download command to download the memory dump:

$ virtctl vmexport download <vmexport_name> --vm|pvc=<object_name> \
  --volume=<volume_name> --output=<output_file>
Hot plug and hot unplug commands
You use virtctl to add or remove resources from running virtual machines (VMs) and virtual machine instances (VMIs).
Image upload commands
You use the virtctl image-upload commands to upload a VM image to a data volume.
Deploying libguestfs by using virtctl
You can use the virtctl guestfs command to deploy an interactive container with libguestfs-tools and a persistent volume claim (PVC) attached to it.

To deploy a container with libguestfs-tools, mount the PVC, and attach a shell to it, run the following command:


Libguestfs and virtctl guestfs commands
Libguestfs tools help you access and modify virtual machine (VM) disk images. You can use libguestfs tools to view and edit files in a guest, clone and build virtual machines, and format and resize disks.

You can also use the virtctl guestfs command and its sub-commands to modify, inspect, and debug VM disks on a PVC. To see a complete list of possible sub-commands, enter virt- on the command line and press the Tab key. For example:


By default, virtctl guestfs creates a session with everything needed to manage a VM disk. However, the command also supports several flag options if you want to customize the behavior:


The command also checks if a PVC is in use by another pod, in which case an error message appears. However, once the libguestfs-tools process starts, the setup cannot avoid a new pod using the same PVC. You must verify that there are no active virtctl guestfs pods before starting the VM that accesses the same PVC.

The virtctl guestfs command accepts only a single PVC attached to the interactive pod.