Creating DNS records on AWS

You can create DNS records on AWS and AWS GovCloud by using External DNS Operator.
Creating DNS records on an public hosted zone for AWS by using Red Hat External DNS Operator
You can create DNS records on a public hosted zone for AWS by using the Red Hat External DNS Operator. You can use the same instructions to create DNS records on a hosted zone for AWS GovCloud.

Check the user. The user must have access to the kube-system namespace. If you don’t have the credentials, as you can fetch the credentials from the kube-system namespace to use the cloud provider client:

Fetch the values from aws-creds secret present in kube-system namespace.

Get the routes to check the domain:

Get the list of dns zones to find the one which corresponds to the previously found route's domain:

Create ExternalDNS resource for route source:

Check the records created for OCP routes using the following command:
Creating DNS records in a different AWS Account using a shared VPC
You can use the ExternalDNS Operator to create DNS records in a different AWS account using a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). By using a shared VPC, an organization can connect resources from multiple projects to a common VPC network. Organizations can then use VPC sharing to use a single Route 53 instance across multiple AWS accounts.

You have created two Amazon AWS accounts: one with a VPC and a Route 53 private hosted zone configured (Account A), and another for installing a cluster (Account B).

You have created an IAM Policy and IAM Role with the appropriate permissions in Account A for Account B to create DNS records in the Route 53 hosted zone of Account A.

You have installed a cluster in Account B into the existing VPC for Account A.

You have installed the ExternalDNS Operator in the cluster in Account B.


Get the Role ARN of the IAM Role that you created to allow Account B to access Account A's Route 53 hosted zone by running the following command:

Locate the private hosted zone to use with Account A's credentials by running the following command:

Create the ExternalDNS object by running the following command:

Check the records created for OpenShift Container Platform (OCP) routes by using the following command: