Installing a cluster on vSphere in a restricted network with user-provisioned infrastructure

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version "4.15", you can install a cluster on VMware vSphere infrastructure that you provision in a restricted network.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports deploying a cluster to a single VMware vCenter only. Deploying a cluster with machines/machine sets on multiple vCenters is not supported.
The steps for performing a user-provisioned infrastructure installation are provided as an example only. Installing a cluster with infrastructure you provide requires knowledge of the vSphere platform and the installation process of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". Use the user-provisioned infrastructure installation instructions as a guide; you are free to create the required resources through other methods.
Prerequisites
You have completed the tasks in Preparing to install a cluster using user-provisioned infrastructure.

You reviewed your VMware platform licenses. Red Hat does not place any restrictions on your VMware licenses, but some VMware infrastructure components require licensing.

You reviewed details about the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You created a registry on your mirror host and obtained the imageContentSources data for your version of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

You provisioned persistent storage for your cluster. To deploy a private image registry, your storage must provide
ReadWriteMany access modes.

Completing the installation requires that you upload the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) OVA on vSphere hosts. The machine from which you complete this process requires access to port 443 on the vCenter and ESXi hosts. You verified that port 443 is accessible.

If you use a firewall, you confirmed with the administrator that port 443 is accessible. Control plane nodes must be able to reach vCenter and ESXi hosts on port 443 for the installation to succeed.

If you use a firewall and plan to use the Telemetry service, you configured the firewall to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.
About installations in restricted networks
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", you can perform an installation that does not require an active connection to the internet to obtain software components. Restricted network installations can be completed using installer-provisioned infrastructure or user-provisioned infrastructure, depending on the cloud platform to which you are installing the cluster.

If you choose to perform a restricted network installation on a cloud platform, you still require access to its cloud APIs. Some cloud functions, like Amazon Web Service's Route 53 DNS and IAM services, require internet access. Depending on your network, you might require less internet access for an installation on bare metal hardware, Nutanix, or on VMware vSphere.

To complete a restricted network installation, you must create a registry that mirrors the contents of the OpenShift image registry and contains the installation media. You can create this registry on a mirror host, which can access both the internet and your closed network, or by using other methods that meet your restrictions.

Because of the complexity of the configuration for user-provisioned installations, consider completing a standard user-provisioned infrastructure installation before you attempt a restricted network installation using user-provisioned infrastructure. Completing this test installation might make it easier to isolate and troubleshoot any issues that might arise during your installation in a restricted network.
Additional limits
Clusters in restricted networks have the following additional limitations and restrictions:

The ClusterVersion status includes an Unable to retrieve available updates
error.

By default, you cannot use the contents of the Developer Catalog because
you cannot access the required image stream tags.
Internet access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", you require access to the internet to obtain the images that are necessary to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access OpenShift Cluster Manager to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
VMware vSphere region and zone enablement
You can deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to multiple vSphere datacenters that run in a single VMware vCenter. Each datacenter can run multiple clusters. This configuration reduces the risk of a hardware failure or network outage that can cause your cluster to fail. To enable regions and zones, you must define multiple failure domains for your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

The VMware vSphere region and zone enablement feature requires the vSphere Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver as the default storage driver in the cluster. As a result, the feature is only available on a newly installed cluster.

For a cluster that was upgraded from a previous release, you must enable CSI automatic migration for the cluster. You can then configure multiple regions and zones for the upgraded cluster.
The default installation configuration deploys a cluster to a single vSphere datacenter. If you want to deploy a cluster to multiple vSphere datacenters, you must create an installation configuration file that enables the region and zone feature.

The default install-config.yaml file includes vcenters and failureDomains fields, where you can specify multiple vSphere datacenters and clusters for your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. You can leave these fields blank if you want to install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster in a vSphere environment that consists of single datacenter.

The following list describes terms associated with defining zones and regions for your cluster:

Failure domain: Establishes the relationships between a region and zone. You define a failure domain by using vCenter objects, such as a datastore object. A failure domain defines the vCenter location for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster nodes.

Region: Specifies a vCenter datacenter. You define a region by using a tag from the  openshift-region tag category.

Zone: Specifies a vCenter cluster. You define a zone by using a tag from the openshift-zone tag category.


If you plan on specifying more than one failure domain in your install-config.yaml file, you must create tag categories, zone tags, and region tags in advance of creating the configuration file.
You must create a vCenter tag for each vCenter datacenter, which represents a region. Additionally, you must create a vCenter tag for each cluster than runs in a datacenter, which represents a zone. After you create the tags, you must attach each tag to their respective datacenters and clusters.

The following table outlines an example of the relationship among regions, zones, and tags for a configuration with multiple vSphere datacenters running in a single VMware vCenter.


Additional VMware vSphere configuration parameters

Deprecated VMware vSphere configuration parameters

vSphere automatic migration

VMware vSphere CSI Driver Operator
Manually creating the installation configuration file
Installing the cluster requires that you manually create the installation configuration file.

The Cluster Cloud Controller Manager Operator performs a connectivity check on a provided hostname or IP address. Ensure that you specify a hostname or an IP address to a reachable vCenter server. If you provide metadata to a non-existent vCenter server, installation of the cluster fails at the bootstrap stage.
You have an SSH public key on your local machine to provide to the installation program. The key will be used for SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes for debugging and disaster recovery.

You have obtained the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your
cluster.

Obtain the imageContentSources section from the output of the command to
mirror the repository.

Obtain the contents of the certificate for your mirror registry.


Create an installation directory to store your required installation assets in:

Customize the sample install-config.yaml file template that is provided and save
it in the <installation_directory>.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use it to install multiple clusters.


Installation configuration parameters


Sample install-config.yaml file for VMware vSphere
You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

additionalTrustBundlePolicy: Proxyonly
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com 1
compute: 2
- architecture: amd64
  name: <worker_node>
  platform: {}
  replicas: 0 3
controlPlane: 2
  architecture: amd64
  name: <parent_node>
  platform: {}
  replicas: 3 4
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: test 5
networking:
---
platform:
  vsphere:
    failureDomains: 6
    - name: <failure_domain_name>
      region: <default_region_name>
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name>
      topology:
        computeCluster: "/<datacenter>/host/<cluster>"
        datacenter: <datacenter> 7
        datastore: "/<datacenter>/datastore/<datastore>" 8
        networks:
        - <VM_Network_name>
        resourcePool: "/<datacenter>/host/<cluster>/Resources/<resourcePool>" 9
        folder: "/<datacenter_name>/vm/<folder_name>/<subfolder_name>" 10
      zone: <default_zone_name>
    vcenters:
    - datacenters:
      - <datacenter>
      password: <password> 11
      port: 443
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name> 12
      user: administrator@vsphere.local
    diskType: thin 13
fips: false 14
pullSecret: '{"auths":{"<local_registry>": {"auth": "<credentials>","email": "you@example.com"}}}' 15
sshKey: 'ssh-ed25519 AAAA...' 16
additionalTrustBundle: | 17
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
imageContentSources: 18
- mirrors:
  - <mirror_host_name>:<mirror_port>/<repo_name>/release
  source: <source_image_1>
- mirrors:
  - <mirror_host_name>:<mirror_port>/<repo_name>/release-images
  source: <source_image_2>
The base domain of the cluster. All DNS records must be sub-domains of this
base and include the cluster name.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a
sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures,
the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the
first line of the controlPlane section must not. Both sections define a single machine pool, so only one control plane is used. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" does not support defining multiple compute pools.

You must set the value of the replicas parameter to 0. This parameter
controls the number of workers that the cluster creates and manages for you,
which are functions that the cluster does not perform when you
use user-provisioned infrastructure. You must manually deploy worker
machines for the cluster to use before you finish installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".

The number of control plane machines that you add to the cluster. Because
the cluster uses this values as the number of etcd endpoints in the cluster, the
value must match the number of control plane machines that you deploy.

The cluster name that you specified in your DNS records.

Establishes the relationships between a region and zone. You define a failure domain by using vCenter objects, such as a datastore object. A failure domain defines the vCenter location for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster nodes.

The vSphere datacenter.

The path to the vSphere datastore that holds virtual machine files, templates, and ISO images.

Optional: For installer-provisioned infrastructure, the absolute path of an existing resource pool where the installation program creates the virtual machines, for example, /<datacenter_name>/host/<cluster_name>/Resources/<resource_pool_name>/<optional_nested_resource_pool_name>. If you do not specify a value, resources are installed in the root of the cluster /example_datacenter/host/example_cluster/Resources.

Optional: For installer-provisioned infrastructure, the absolute path of an existing folder where the installation program creates the virtual machines, for example, /<datacenter_name>/vm/<folder_name>/<subfolder_name>. If you do not provide this value, the installation program creates a top-level folder in the datacenter virtual machine folder that is named with the infrastructure ID. If you are providing the infrastructure for the cluster and you do not want to use the default StorageClass object, named thin, you can omit the folder parameter from the install-config.yaml file.

The password associated with the vSphere user.

The fully-qualified hostname or IP address of the vCenter server.

The vSphere disk provisioning method.

Whether to enable or disable FIPS mode. By default, FIPS mode is not enabled. If FIPS mode is enabled, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines that "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" runs on bypass the default Kubernetes cryptography suite and use the cryptography modules that are provided with RHCOS instead.

For <local_registry>, specify the registry domain name, and optionally the
port, that your mirror registry uses to serve content. For example
registry.example.com or registry.example.com:5000. For <credentials>,
specify the base64-encoded user name and password for your mirror registry.

The public portion of the default SSH key for the core user in
Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS).

Provide the contents of the certificate file that you used for your mirror
registry.

Provide the imageContentSources section from the output of the command to
mirror the repository.
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform".


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Configuring regions and zones for a VMware vCenter
You can modify the default installation configuration file, so that you can deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster to multiple vSphere datacenters that run in a single VMware vCenter.

The default install-config.yaml file configuration from the previous release of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" is deprecated. You can continue to use the deprecated default configuration, but the openshift-installer will prompt you with a warning message that indicates the use of deprecated fields in the configuration file.

The example uses the govc command. The govc command is an open source command available from VMware; it is not available from Red Hat. The Red Hat support team does not maintain the govc command. Instructions for downloading and installing govc are found on the VMware documentation website
You have an existing install-config.yaml installation configuration file.


Enter the following govc command-line tool commands to create the openshift-region and openshift-zone vCenter tag categories:

To create a region tag for each region vSphere datacenter where you want to deploy your cluster, enter the following command in your terminal:

To create a zone tag for each vSphere cluster where you want to deploy your cluster, enter the following command:

Attach region tags to each vCenter datacenter object by entering the following command:

Attach the zone tags to each vCenter datacenter object by entering the following command:

Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment according to your chosen installation requirements.


---
compute:
---
  vsphere:
      zones:
        - "<machine_pool_zone_1>"
        - "<machine_pool_zone_2>"
---
controlPlane:
---
vsphere:
      zones:
        - "<machine_pool_zone_1>"
        - "<machine_pool_zone_2>"
---
platform:
  vsphere:
    vcenters:
---
    datacenters:
      - <datacenter1_name>
      - <datacenter2_name>
    failureDomains:
    - name: <machine_pool_zone_1>
      region: <region_tag_1>
      zone: <zone_tag_1>
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name>
      topology:
        datacenter: <datacenter1>
        computeCluster: "/<datacenter1>/host/<cluster1>"
        networks:
        - <VM_Network1_name>
        datastore: "/<datacenter1>/datastore/<datastore1>"
        resourcePool: "/<datacenter1>/host/<cluster1>/Resources/<resourcePool1>"
        folder: "/<datacenter1>/vm/<folder1>"
    - name: <machine_pool_zone_2>
      region: <region_tag_2>
      zone: <zone_tag_2>
      server: <fully_qualified_domain_name>
      topology:
        datacenter: <datacenter2>
        computeCluster: "/<datacenter2>/host/<cluster2>"
        networks:
        - <VM_Network2_name>
        datastore: "/<datacenter2>/datastore/<datastore2>"
        resourcePool: "/<datacenter2>/host/<cluster2>/Resources/<resourcePool2>"
        folder: "/<datacenter2>/vm/<folder2>"
---
Creating the Kubernetes manifest and Ignition config files
Because you must modify some cluster definition files and manually start the cluster machines, you must generate the Kubernetes manifest and Ignition config files that the cluster needs to configure the machines.

The installation configuration file transforms into the Kubernetes manifests. The manifests wrap into the Ignition configuration files, which are later used to configure the cluster machines.

The Ignition config files that the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
You obtained the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program.
For a restricted network installation, these files are on your mirror host.

You created the install-config.yaml installation configuration file.


Change to the directory that contains the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and generate the Kubernetes manifests for the cluster:

Remove the Kubernetes manifest files that define the control plane machines, compute machine sets, and control plane machine sets:

Check that the mastersSchedulable parameter in the <installation_directory>/manifests/cluster-scheduler-02-config.yml Kubernetes manifest file is set to false. This setting prevents pods from being scheduled on the control plane machines:

To create the Ignition configuration files, run the following command from the directory that contains the installation program:
Configuring chrony time service
You must set the time server and related settings used by the chrony time service (chronyd) by modifying the contents of the chrony.conf file and passing those contents to your nodes as a machine config.

Create a Butane config including the contents of the chrony.conf file. For example, to configure chrony on worker nodes, create a 99-worker-chrony.bu file.

Use Butane to generate a MachineConfig object file, 99-worker-chrony.yaml, containing the configuration to be delivered to the nodes:

Apply the configurations in one of two ways:
Extracting the infrastructure name
The Ignition config files contain a unique cluster identifier that you can use to uniquely identify your cluster in VMware vSphere. If you plan to use the cluster identifier as the name of your virtual machine folder, you must extract it.

You obtained the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You generated the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You installed the jq package.


To extract and view the infrastructure name from the Ignition config file
metadata, run the following command:
Installing RHCOS and starting the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" bootstrap process
To install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on user-provisioned infrastructure on VMware vSphere, you must install Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) on vSphere hosts. When you install RHCOS, you must provide the Ignition config file that was generated by the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program for the type of machine you are installing. If you have configured suitable networking, DNS, and load balancing infrastructure, the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" bootstrap process begins automatically after the RHCOS machines have rebooted.

You have obtained the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You have access to an HTTP server that you can access from your computer and that the machines that you create can access.

You have created a vSphere cluster.


Upload the bootstrap Ignition config file, which is named <installation_directory>/bootstrap.ign, that the installation program created to your HTTP server. Note the URL of this file.

Save the following secondary Ignition config file for your bootstrap node to your computer as <installation_directory>/merge-bootstrap.ign:

Locate the following Ignition config files that the installation program created:

Convert the Ignition config files to Base64 encoding. Later in this procedure, you must add these files to the extra configuration parameter guestinfo.ignition.config.data in your VM.

Obtain the RHCOS OVA image. Images are available from the RHCOS image mirror page.

In the vSphere Client, create a folder in your datacenter to store your VMs.

In the vSphere Client, create a template for the OVA image and then clone the template as needed.

Optional: Update the configured virtual hardware version in the VM template, if necessary. Follow Upgrading a virtual machine to the latest hardware version in the VMware documentation for more information.

After the template deploys, deploy a VM for a machine in the cluster.


Create the rest of the machines for your cluster by following the preceding steps for each machine.
Adding more compute machines to a cluster in vSphere
You can add more compute machines to a user-provisioned "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on VMware vSphere.

After your vSphere template deploys in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, you can deploy a virtual machine (VM) for a machine in that cluster.

Obtain the base64-encoded Ignition file for your compute machines.

You have access to the vSphere template that you created for your cluster.


Right-click the template's name and click Clone -> Clone to Virtual Machine.

On the Select a name and folder tab, specify a name for the VM. You might include the machine type in the name, such as compute-1.

On the Select a name and folder tab, select the name of the folder that you created for the cluster.

On the Select a compute resource tab, select the name of a host in your datacenter.

On the Select storage tab, select storage for your configuration and disk files.

On the Select clone options tab, select Customize this virtual machine's hardware.

On the Customize hardware tab, click Advanced Parameters.

In the Virtual Hardware panel of the Customize hardware tab, modify the specified values as required. Ensure that the amount of RAM, CPU, and disk storage meets the minimum requirements for the machine type. If many networks exist, select Add New Device > Network Adapter, and then enter your network information in the fields provided by the New Network menu item.

Complete the remaining configuration steps. On clicking the Finish button, you have completed the cloning operation.

From the Virtual Machines tab, right-click on your VM and then select Power -> Power On.


Continue to create more compute machines for your cluster.
Disk partitioning
In most cases, data partitions are originally created by installing RHCOS, rather than by installing another operating system. In such cases, the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installer should be allowed to configure your disk partitions.

However, there are two cases where you might want to intervene to override the default partitioning when installing an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" node:

Create separate partitions: For greenfield installations on an empty
disk, you might want to add separate storage to a partition. This is
officially supported for making /var or a subdirectory of /var, such as /var/lib/etcd, a separate partition, but not both.

Retain existing partitions: For a brownfield installation where you are reinstalling "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on an existing node and want to retain data partitions installed from your previous operating system, there are both boot arguments and options to coreos-installer that allow you to retain existing data partitions.



In general, disk partitioning for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" should be left to the installer. However, there are cases where you might want to create separate partitions in a part of the filesystem that you expect to grow.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports the addition of a single partition to attach storage to either the /var partition or a subdirectory of /var. For example:

/var/lib/containers: Holds container-related content that can grow
as more images and containers are added to a system.

/var/lib/etcd: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as performance optimization of etcd storage.

/var: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as auditing.


Storing the contents of a /var directory separately makes it easier to grow storage for those areas as needed and reinstall "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" at a later date and keep that data intact. With this method, you will not have to pull all your containers again, nor will you have to copy massive log files when you update systems.

Because /var must be in place before a fresh installation of Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS), the following procedure sets up the separate /var partition by creating a machine config manifest that is inserted during the openshift-install preparation phases of an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation.

Create a directory to hold the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation files:

Run openshift-install to create a set of files in the manifest and
openshift subdirectories. Answer the system questions as you are prompted:

Create a Butane config that configures the additional partition. For example, name the file $HOME/clusterconfig/98-var-partition.bu, change the disk device name to the name of the storage device on the worker systems, and set the storage size as appropriate. This example places the /var directory on a separate partition:

Create a manifest from the Butane config and save it to the clusterconfig/openshift directory. For example, run the following command:

Run openshift-install again to create Ignition configs from a set of files in the manifest and openshift subdirectories:


Now you can use the Ignition config files as input to the vSphere installation procedures to install Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) systems.
Waiting for the bootstrap process to complete
The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" bootstrap process begins after the cluster nodes first boot into the persistent RHCOS environment that has been installed to disk. The configuration information provided through the Ignition config files is used to initialize the bootstrap process and install "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" on the machines. You must wait for the bootstrap process to complete.

You have created the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You have configured suitable network, DNS and load balancing infrastructure.

You have obtained the installation program and generated the Ignition config files for your cluster.

You installed RHCOS on your cluster machines and provided the Ignition config files that the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation program generated.


Monitor the bootstrap process:

After the bootstrap process is complete, remove the bootstrap machine from the
load balancer.
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation.

You deployed an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.
Initial Operator configuration
After the control plane initializes, you must immediately configure some Operators so that they all become available.

Your control plane has initialized.


Watch the cluster components come online:

Configure the Operators that are not available.


Disabling the default OperatorHub catalog sources
Operator catalogs that source content provided by Red Hat and community projects are configured for OperatorHub by default during an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation. In a restricted network environment, you must disable the default catalogs as a cluster administrator.

Disable the sources for the default catalogs by adding disableAllDefaultSources: true to the OperatorHub object:


Alternatively, you can use the web console to manage catalog sources. From the Administration -> Cluster Settings -> Configuration -> OperatorHub page, click the Sources tab, where you can create, update, delete, disable, and enable individual sources.
Image registry storage configuration
The Image Registry Operator is not initially available for platforms that do not provide default storage. After installation, you must configure your registry to use storage so that the Registry Operator is made available.

Instructions are shown for configuring a persistent volume, which is required for production clusters. Where applicable, instructions are shown for configuring an empty directory as the storage location, which is available for only non-production clusters.

Additional instructions are provided for allowing the image registry to use block storage types by using the Recreate rollout strategy during upgrades.

Configuring registry storage for VMware vSphere
As a cluster administrator, following installation you must configure your registry to use storage.

Cluster administrator permissions.

A cluster on VMware vSphere.

Persistent storage provisioned for your cluster, such as Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation.

Must have "100Gi" capacity.


Testing shows issues with using the NFS server on RHEL as storage backend for core services. This includes the OpenShift Container Registry and Quay, Prometheus for monitoring storage, and Elasticsearch for logging storage. Therefore, using RHEL NFS to back PVs used by core services is not recommended.

Other NFS implementations on the marketplace might not have these issues. Contact the individual NFS implementation vendor for more information on any testing that was possibly completed against these "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" core components.
To configure your registry to use storage, change the spec.storage.pvc in the configs.imageregistry/cluster resource.

Verify that you do not have a registry pod:

Check the registry configuration:

Check the clusteroperator status:
Configuring storage for the image registry in non-production clusters
You must configure storage for the Image Registry Operator. For non-production clusters, you can set the image registry to an empty directory. If you do so, all images are lost if you restart the registry.

To set the image registry storage to an empty directory:
Configuring block registry storage for VMware vSphere
To allow the image registry to use block storage types such as vSphere Virtual Machine Disk (VMDK) during upgrades as a cluster administrator, you can use the Recreate rollout strategy.

Block storage volumes are supported but not recommended for use with image registry on production clusters. An installation where the registry is configured on block storage is not highly available because the registry cannot have more than one replica.
Enter the following command to set the image registry storage as a block storage type, patch the registry so that it uses the Recreate rollout strategy, and runs with only 1 replica:

Provision the PV for the block storage device, and create a PVC for that volume. The requested block volume uses the ReadWriteOnce (RWO) access mode.

Enter the following command to edit the registry configuration so that it references the correct PVC:


For instructions about configuring registry storage so that it references the correct PVC, see Configuring the registry for vSphere.
Completing installation on user-provisioned infrastructure
After you complete the Operator configuration, you can finish installing the cluster on infrastructure that you provide.

Your control plane has initialized.

You have completed the initial Operator configuration.


Confirm that all the cluster components are online with the following command:

Confirm that the Kubernetes API server is communicating with the pods.

For an installation with Fibre Channel Protocol (FCP), additional steps are required to enable multipathing. Do not enable multipathing during installation.

Register your cluster on the Cluster registration page.


You can add extra compute machines after the cluster installation is completed by following Adding compute machines to vSphere.
Configuring vSphere DRS anti-affinity rules for control plane nodes
vSphere Distributed Resource Scheduler (DRS) anti-affinity rules can be configured to support higher availability of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" Control Plane nodes. Anti-affinity rules ensure that the vSphere Virtual Machines for the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" Control Plane nodes are not scheduled to the same vSphere Host.

The following information applies to compute DRS only and does not apply to storage DRS.

The govc command is an open-source command available from VMware; it is not available from Red Hat. The govc command is not supported by the Red Hat support.

Instructions for downloading and installing govc are found on the VMware documentation website.
Create an anti-affinity rule by running the following command:

$ govc cluster.rule.create \
  -name openshift4-control-plane-group \
  -dc MyDatacenter -cluster MyCluster \
  -enable \
  -anti-affinity master-0 master-1 master-2
After creating the rule, your control plane nodes are automatically migrated by vSphere so they are not running on the same hosts. This might take some time while vSphere reconciles the new rule. Successful command completion is shown in the following procedure.

The migration occurs automatically and might cause brief OpenShift API outage or latency until the migration finishes.
The vSphere DRS anti-affinity rules need to be updated manually in the event of a control plane VM name change or migration to a new vSphere Cluster.

Remove any existing DRS anti-affinity rule by running the following command:

Create the rule again with updated names by running the following command:
Telemetry access for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform"
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15", the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to OpenShift Cluster Manager.

After you confirm that your OpenShift Cluster Manager inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

See About remote health monitoring for more information about the Telemetry service
Next steps
Customize your cluster.

If the mirror registry that you used to install your cluster has a trusted CA, add it to the cluster by configuring additional trust stores.

If necessary, you can
opt out of remote health reporting.

Optional: View the events from the vSphere Problem Detector Operator to determine if the cluster has permission or storage configuration issues.

Optional: if you created encrypted virtual machines, create an encrypted storage class.