Rolling back to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin

As a cluster administrator, you can rollback to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin from the OpenShift SDN network plugin if the migration to OpenShift SDN is unsuccessful.

To learn more about OVN-Kubernetes, read About the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin.
Migrating to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin
As a cluster administrator, you can change the network plugin for your cluster to OVN-Kubernetes. During the migration, you must reboot every node in your cluster.

While performing the migration, your cluster is unavailable and workloads might be interrupted. Perform the migration only when an interruption in service is acceptable.
A cluster configured with the OpenShift SDN CNI network plugin in the network policy isolation mode.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

A recent backup of the etcd database is available.

A reboot can be triggered manually for each node.

The cluster is in a known good state, without any errors.

On all cloud platforms after updating software, a security group rule must be in place to allow UDP packets on port 6081 for all nodes.


To backup the configuration for the cluster network, enter the following command:

To prepare all the nodes for the migration, set the migration field on the Cluster Network Operator configuration object by entering the following command:

Optional: You can disable automatic migration of several OpenShift SDN capabilities to the OVN-Kubernetes equivalents:

Optional: You can customize the following settings for OVN-Kubernetes to meet your network infrastructure requirements:

As the MCO updates machines in each machine config pool, it reboots each node one by one. You must wait until all the nodes are updated. Check the machine config pool status by entering the following command:

Confirm the status of the new machine configuration on the hosts:

To start the migration, configure the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin by using one of the following commands:

Verify that the Multus daemon set rollout is complete before continuing with subsequent steps:

To complete changing the network plugin, reboot each node in your cluster. You can reboot the nodes in your cluster with either of the following approaches:

Confirm that the migration succeeded:

Complete the following steps only if the migration succeeds and your cluster is in a good state: