Getting started with OpenShift Virtualization

You can explore the features and functionalities of OpenShift Virtualization by installing and configuring a basic environment.

Cluster configuration procedures require cluster-admin privileges.
Planning and installing OpenShift Virtualization
Plan and install OpenShift Virtualization on an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster:

Plan your bare metal cluster for OpenShift Virtualization.

Prepare your cluster for OpenShift Virtualization.

Install the OpenShift Virtualization Operator.

Install the virtctl command line interface (CLI) tool.



About storage volumes for virtual machine disks.

Using a CSI-enabled storage provider.

Configuring local storage for virtual machines.

Installing the Kubernetes NMState Operator.

Specifying nodes for virtual machines.

Virtctl commands.
Creating and managing virtual machines
Create a virtual machine (VM):

Create a VM from a Red Hat image.


{FeatureName} is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Create a VM from a custom image.


Connect a VM to a secondary network:

Linux bridge network.

Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network.

Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) network.


Connect to a VM:

Connect to the serial console or VNC console of a VM.

Connect to a VM by using SSH.

Connect to the desktop viewer for Windows VMs.


Manage a VM:

Manage a VM by using the web console.

Manage a VM by using the virtctl CLI tool.

Export a VM.
Next steps
Review postinstallation configuration options.

Configure storage options and automatic boot source updates.

Learn about monitoring and health checks.

Learn about live migration.

Back up and restore VMs.

Tune and scale your cluster.