Configuring QinQ support for SR-IOV enabled workloads

QinQ, formally known as 802.1Q-in-802.1Q, is a networking technique defined by IEEE 802.1ad. IEEE 802.1ad extends the IEEE 802.1Q-1998 standard and enriches VLAN capabilities by introducing an additional 802.1Q tag to packets already tagged with 802.1Q. This method is also referred to as VLAN stacking or double VLAN.
About 802.1Q-in-802.1Q support
In traditional VLAN setups, frames typically contain a single VLAN tag, such as VLAN-100, as well as other metadata such as Quality of Service (QoS) bits and protocol information. QinQ introduces a second VLAN tag, where the service provider designates the outer tag for their use, offering them flexibility, while the inner tag remains dedicated to the customer's VLAN.

QinQ facilitates the creation of nested VLANs by using double VLAN tagging, enabling finer segmentation and isolation of traffic within a network environment. This approach is particularly valuable in service provider networks where you need to deliver VLAN-based services to multiple customers over a common infrastructure, while ensuring separation and isolation of traffic.

When two VLAN tags are present in a packet, the outer VLAN tag can be either 802.1Q or 802.1ad. The inner VLAN tag must always be 802.1Q.

The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform SR-IOV solution already supports setting the VLAN protocol on the SriovNetwork custom resource (CR). The virtual function (VF) can use this protocol to set the VLAN tag, also known as the outer tag. Pods can then use the VLAN CNI plugin to configure the inner tag.


Configuration for an VLAN additional network
Configuring QinQ support for SR-IOV enabled workloads
You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.


Create a file named sriovnetpolicy-810-sriov-node-network.yaml by using the following content:

Create the SriovNetworkNodePolicy object by running the following command:

Open a separate terminal window and monitor the synchronization status of the SR-IOV network node state for the node specified in the openshift-sriov-network-operator namespace by running the following command:

Create a SriovNetwork object, and set the outer VLAN called the S-tag, or Service Tag, as it belongs to the infrastructure.

Create a NetworkAttachmentDefinition object with an inner VLAN. The inner VLAN is often referred to as the C-tag, or Customer Tag, as it belongs to the Network Function:


Verify QinQ is active on the node by following this procedure: