Azure File CSI Driver Operator

Overview
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) by using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Microsoft Azure File Storage.

Familiarity with persistent storage and configuring CSI volumes is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver.

To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure File storage assets, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installs the Azure File CSI Driver Operator and the Azure File CSI driver by default in the openshift-cluster-csi-drivers namespace.

The Azure File CSI Driver Operator provides a storage class that is named azurefile-csi that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). You can disable this default storage class if desired (see Managing the default storage class).

The Azure File CSI driver enables you to create and mount Azure File PVs. The Azure File CSI driver supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage.


Azure File CSI Driver Operator does not support:

Virtual hard disks (VHD)

Running on nodes with Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) mode enabled for Server Message Block (SMB) file share. However, Network File System (NFS) does support FIPS mode.


For more information about supported features, see Supported CSI drivers and features.
NFS support
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.14, and later, supports Azure File Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver Operator with  Network File System (NFS) with the following caveats:

Creating pods with Azure File NFS volumes that are scheduled to the control plane node causes the mount to be denied.

FS Group policy behavior:

The Azure File CSI Operator does not automatically create a storage class for NFS. You must create it manually. Use a file similar to the following:
About CSI
Storage vendors have traditionally provided storage drivers as part of Kubernetes. With the implementation of the Container Storage Interface (CSI), third-party providers can instead deliver storage plugins using a standard interface without ever having to change the core Kubernetes code.

CSI Operators give Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform users storage options, such as volume snapshots, that are not possible with in-tree volume plugins.

Persistent storage using Azure File

Configuring CSI volumes