Telco core "4.15" use model overview

The Telco core reference design specification (RDS) describes a platform that supports large-scale telco applications including control plane functions such as signaling and aggregation. It also includes some centralized data plane functions, for example, user plane functions (UPF). These functions generally require scalability, complex networking support, resilient software-defined storage, and support performance requirements that are less stringent and constrained than far-edge deployments like RAN.



The networking prerequisites for telco core functions are diverse and encompass an array of networking attributes and performance benchmarks. IPv6 is mandatory, with dual-stack configurations being prevalent. Certain functions demand maximum throughput and transaction rates, necessitating user plane networking support such as DPDK. Other functions adhere to conventional cloud-native patterns and can use solutions such as OVN-K, kernel networking, and load balancing.

Telco core clusters are configured as standard three control plane clusters with worker nodes configured with the stock non real-time (RT) kernel. To support workloads with varying networking and performance requirements, worker nodes are segmented using MachineConfigPool CRs. For example, this is done to separate non-user data plane nodes from high-throughput nodes. To support the required telco operational features, the clusters have a standard set of Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) Day 2 Operators installed.
Common baseline model
The following configurations and use model description are applicable to all telco core use cases.


Cluster
The cluster conforms to these requirements:
Storage
Core use cases require persistent storage as provided by external OpenShift Data Foundation. For more information, see the "Storage" subsection in "Reference core design components".
Networking
Telco core clusters networking conforms to these requirements:
Service Mesh
Use of Service Mesh by telco CNFs is very common. It is expected that all core clusters will include a Service Mesh implementation. Service Mesh implementation and configuration is outside the scope of this specification.


Engineering Considerations common use model
The following engineering considerations are relevant for the common use model.


Worker nodes

All nodes



The balance of node configuration between power management and maximum performance varies between MachineConfigPools in the cluster. This configuration is consistent for all nodes within a MachineConfigPool.


CPU partitioning
CPU partitioning is configured using the PerformanceProfile and applied on a per MachineConfigPool basis. See the "CPU partitioning and performance tuning" subsection in "Reference core design components".
Application workloads
Application workloads running on core clusters might include a mix of high-performance networking CNFs and traditional best-effort or burstable pod workloads.

Guaranteed QoS scheduling is available to pods that require exclusive or dedicated use of CPUs due to performance or security requirements. Typically pods hosting high-performance and low-latency-sensitive Cloud Native Functions (CNFs) utilizing user plane networking with DPDK necessitate the exclusive utilization of entire CPUs. This is accomplished through node tuning and guaranteed Quality of Service (QoS) scheduling. For pods that require exclusive use of CPUs, be aware of the potential implications of hyperthreaded systems and configure them to request multiples of 2 CPUs when the entire core (2 hyperthreads) must be allocated to the pod.

Pods running network functions that do not require the high throughput and low latency networking are typically scheduled with best-effort or burstable QoS and do not require dedicated or isolated CPU cores.


Description of limits

Signaling workload