Managing control plane machines with control plane machine sets

Control plane machine sets automate several essential aspects of control plane management.
Replacing a control plane machine
To replace a control plane machine in a cluster that has a control plane machine set, you delete the machine manually. The control plane machine set replaces the deleted machine with one using the specification in the control plane machine set custom resource (CR).

If your cluster runs on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) and you need to evacuate a compute server, such as for an upgrade, you must disable the RHOSP compute node that the machine runs on by running the following command:


List the control plane machines in your cluster by running the following command:

Delete a control plane machine by running the following command:
Updating the control plane configuration
You can make changes to the configuration of the machines in the control plane by updating the specification in the control plane machine set custom resource (CR).

The Control Plane Machine Set Operator monitors the control plane machines and compares their configuration with the specification in the control plane machine set CR. When there is a discrepancy between the specification in the CR and the configuration of a control plane machine, the Operator marks that control plane machine for replacement.

For more information about the parameters in the CR, see "Control plane machine set configuration".
Your cluster has an activated and functioning Control Plane Machine Set Operator.


Edit your control plane machine set CR by running the following command:

Change the values of any fields that you want to update in your cluster configuration.

Save your changes.


For clusters that use the default RollingUpdate update strategy, the control plane machine set propagates changes to your control plane configuration automatically.

For clusters that are configured to use the OnDelete update strategy, you must replace your control plane machines manually.


Automatic updates to the control plane configuration
The RollingUpdate update strategy automatically propagates changes to your control plane configuration. This update strategy is the default configuration for the control plane machine set.

For clusters that use the RollingUpdate update strategy, the Operator creates a replacement control plane machine with the configuration that is specified in the CR. When the replacement control plane machine is ready, the Operator deletes the control plane machine that is marked for replacement. The replacement machine then joins the control plane.

If multiple control plane machines are marked for replacement, the Operator protects etcd health during replacement by repeating this replacement process one machine at a time until it has replaced each machine.
Manual updates to the control plane configuration
You can use the OnDelete update strategy to propagate changes to your control plane configuration by replacing machines manually. Manually replacing machines allows you to test changes to your configuration on a single machine before applying the changes more broadly.

For clusters that are configured to use the OnDelete update strategy, the Operator creates a replacement control plane machine when you delete an existing machine. When the replacement control plane machine is ready, the etcd Operator allows the existing machine to be deleted. The replacement machine then joins the control plane.

If multiple control plane machines are deleted, the Operator creates all of the required replacement machines simultaneously. The Operator maintains etcd health by preventing more than one machine being removed from the control plane at once.
Enabling Amazon Web Services features for control plane machines
You can enable Amazon Web Services (AWS) features on control plane machines by changing the configuration of your control plane machine set. When you save an update to the control plane machine set, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator updates the control plane machines according to your configured update strategy.

Restricting the API server to private
After you deploy a cluster to Amazon Web Services (AWS), you can reconfigure the API server to use only the private zone.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Have access to the web console as a user with admin privileges.


In the web portal or console for your cloud provider, take the following actions:

Remove the external load balancers by deleting the following lines in the control plane machine set custom resource:
Changing the Amazon Web Services instance type by using a control plane machine set
You can change the Amazon Web Services (AWS) instance type that your control plane machines use by updating the specification in the control plane machine set custom resource (CR).

Your AWS cluster uses a control plane machine set.


Edit the following line under the providerSpec field:

Save your changes.
Assigning machines to placement groups for Elastic Fabric Adapter instances by using machine sets
You can configure a machine set to deploy machines on Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) instances within an existing AWS placement group.

EFA instances do not require placement groups, and you can use placement groups for purposes other than configuring an EFA. This example uses both to demonstrate a configuration that can improve network performance for machines within the specified placement group.

You created a placement group in the AWS console.


In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following lines under the providerSpec field:


In the AWS console, find a machine that the machine set created and verify the following in the machine properties:
Machine set options for the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service
You can use machine sets to create machines that use a specific version of the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service (IMDS). Machine sets can create machines that allow the use of both IMDSv1 and IMDSv2 or machines that require the use of IMDSv2.

Using IMDSv2 is only supported on AWS clusters that were created with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version 4.7 or later.
To change the IMDS configuration for existing machines, edit the machine set YAML file that manages those machines.

Before configuring a machine set to create machines that require IMDSv2, ensure that any workloads that interact with the AWS metadata service support IMDSv2.
Configuring IMDS by using machine sets
You can specify whether to require the use of IMDSv2 by adding or editing the value of metadataServiceOptions.authentication in the machine set YAML file for your machines.

To use IMDSv2, your AWS cluster must have been created with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version 4.7 or later.


Add or edit the following lines under the providerSpec field:
Machine sets that deploy machines as Dedicated Instances
You can create a machine set running on AWS that deploys machines as Dedicated Instances. Dedicated Instances run in a virtual private cloud (VPC) on hardware that is dedicated to a single customer. These Amazon EC2 instances are physically isolated at the host hardware level. The isolation of Dedicated Instances occurs even if the instances belong to different AWS accounts that are linked to a single payer account. However, other instances that are not dedicated can share hardware with Dedicated Instances if they belong to the same AWS account.

Instances with either public or dedicated tenancy are supported by the Machine API. Instances with public tenancy run on shared hardware. Public tenancy is the default tenancy. Instances with dedicated tenancy run on single-tenant hardware.

Creating Dedicated Instances by using machine sets
You can run a machine that is backed by a Dedicated Instance by using Machine API integration. Set the tenancy field in your machine set YAML file to launch a Dedicated Instance on AWS.

Specify a dedicated tenancy under the providerSpec field:
Enabling Microsoft Azure features for control plane machines
You can enable Microsoft Azure features on control plane machines by changing the configuration of your control plane machine set. When you save an update to the control plane machine set, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator updates the control plane machines according to your configured update strategy.

Restricting the API server to private
After you deploy a cluster to Microsoft Azure, you can reconfigure the API server to use only the private zone.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc).

Have access to the web console as a user with admin privileges.


In the web portal or console for your cloud provider, take the following actions:

Remove the external load balancers by deleting the following lines in the control plane machine set custom resource:
Using the Azure Marketplace offering
You can create a machine set running on Azure that deploys machines that use the Azure Marketplace offering. To use this offering, you must first obtain the Azure Marketplace image. When obtaining your image, consider the following:

While the images are the same, the Azure Marketplace publisher is different depending on your region. If you are located in North America, specify redhat as the publisher. If you are located in EMEA, specify redhat-limited as the publisher.

The offer includes a rh-ocp-worker SKU and a rh-ocp-worker-gen1 SKU. The rh-ocp-worker SKU represents a Hyper-V generation version 2 VM image. The default instance types used in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" are version 2 compatible. If you plan to use an instance type that is only version 1 compatible, use the image associated with the rh-ocp-worker-gen1 SKU. The rh-ocp-worker-gen1 SKU represents a Hyper-V version 1 VM image.


Installing images with the Azure marketplace is not supported on clusters with 64-bit ARM instances.
You have installed the Azure CLI client (az).

Your Azure account is entitled for the offer and you have logged into this account with the Azure CLI client.


Display all of the available "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" images by running one of the following commands:

Inspect the image for your offer by running one of the following commands:

Review the terms of the offer by running one of the following commands:

Accept the terms of the offering by running one of the following commands:

Record the image details of your offer, specifically the values for publisher, offer, sku, and version.

Add the following parameters to the providerSpec section of your machine set YAML file using the image details for your offer:
Enabling Azure boot diagnostics
You can enable boot diagnostics on Azure machines that your machine set creates.

Have an existing Microsoft Azure
cluster.


Add the diagnostics configuration that is applicable to your storage type to the providerSpec field in your machine set YAML file:


On the Microsoft Azure portal, review the Boot diagnostics page for a machine deployed by the machine set, and verify that you can see the serial logs for the machine.
Machine sets that deploy machines with ultra disks as data disks
You can create a machine set running on Azure that deploys machines with ultra disks. Ultra disks are high-performance storage that are intended for use with the most demanding data workloads.

Microsoft Azure ultra disks documentation


Creating machines with ultra disks by using machine sets
You can deploy machines with ultra disks on Azure by editing your machine set YAML file.

Have an existing Microsoft Azure cluster.


Create a custom secret in the openshift-machine-api namespace using the master data secret by running the following command:

In a text editor, open the userData.txt file and locate the final } character in the file.

Extract the disabling template value to a file called disableTemplating.txt by running the following command:

Combine the userData.txt file and disableTemplating.txt file to create a data secret file by running the following command:

Edit your control plane machine set CR by running the following command:

Add the following lines in the positions indicated:

Save your changes.


Validate that the machines are created by running the following command:

For a machine that is running and has a node attached, validate the partition by running the following command:


To use an ultra disk on the control plane, reconfigure your workload to use the control plane's ultra disk mount point.
Troubleshooting resources for machine sets that enable ultra disks
Use the information in this section to understand and recover from issues you might encounter.

Incorrect ultra disk configuration
If an incorrect configuration of the ultraSSDCapability parameter is specified in the machine set, the machine provisioning fails.

For example, if the ultraSSDCapability parameter is set to Disabled, but an ultra disk is specified in the dataDisks parameter, the following error message appears:

StorageAccountType UltraSSD_LRS can be used only when additionalCapabilities.ultraSSDEnabled is set.
To resolve this issue, verify that your machine set configuration is correct.
Unsupported disk parameters
If a region, availability zone, or instance size that is not compatible with ultra disks is specified in the machine set, the machine provisioning fails. Check the logs for the following error message:

failed to create vm <machine_name>: failure sending request for machine <machine_name>: cannot create vm: compute.VirtualMachinesClient#CreateOrUpdate: Failure sending request: StatusCode=400 -- Original Error: Code="BadRequest" Message="Storage Account type 'UltraSSD_LRS' is not supported <more_information_about_why>."
To resolve this issue, verify that you are using this feature in a supported environment and that your machine set configuration is correct.
Unable to delete disks
If the deletion of ultra disks as data disks is not working as expected, the machines are deleted and the data disks are orphaned. You must delete the orphaned disks manually if desired.
Enabling customer-managed encryption keys for a machine set
You can supply an encryption key to Azure to encrypt data on managed disks at rest. You can enable server-side encryption with customer-managed keys by using the Machine API.

An Azure Key Vault, a disk encryption set, and an encryption key are required to use a customer-managed key. The disk encryption set must be in a resource group where the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) has granted permissions. If not, an additional reader role is required to be granted on the disk encryption set.

Create an Azure Key Vault instance.

Create an instance of a disk encryption set.

Grant the disk encryption set access to key vault.


Configure the disk encryption set under the providerSpec field in your machine set YAML file. For example:


Azure documentation about customer-managed keys
Configuring trusted launch for Azure virtual machines by using machine sets
Using trusted launch for Azure virtual machines is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15" supports trusted launch for Azure virtual machines (VMs). By editing the machine set YAML file, you can configure the trusted launch options that a machine set uses for machines that it deploys. For example, you can configure these machines to use UEFI security features such as Secure Boot or a dedicated virtual Trusted Platform Module (vTPM) instance.

Some feature combinations result in an invalid configuration.

Using the secureBoot field.

Using the virtualizedTrustedPlatformModule field.
For more information about related features and functionality, see the Microsoft Azure documentation about Trusted launch for Azure virtual machines.

In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following section under the providerSpec field to provide a valid configuration:


On the Azure portal, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the trusted launch options match the values that you configured.
Configuring Azure confidential virtual machines by using machine sets
Using Azure confidential virtual machines is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15" supports Azure confidential virtual machines (VMs).

Confidential VMs are currently not supported on 64-bit ARM architectures.
By editing the machine set YAML file, you can configure the confidential VM options that a machine set uses for machines that it deploys. For example, you can configure these machines to use UEFI security features such as Secure Boot or a dedicated virtual Trusted Platform Module (vTPM) instance.

Not all instance types support confidential VMs. Do not change the instance type for a control plane machine set that is configured to use confidential VMs to a type that is incompatible. Using an incompatible instance type can cause your cluster to become unstable.
For more information about related features and functionality, see the Microsoft Azure documentation about Confidential virtual machines.

In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following section under the providerSpec field:


On the Azure portal, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the confidential VM options match the values that you configured.
Accelerated Networking for Microsoft Azure VMs
Accelerated Networking uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) to provide Microsoft Azure VMs with a more direct path to the switch. This enhances network performance. This feature can be enabled after installation.

Limitations
Consider the following limitations when deciding whether to use Accelerated Networking:

Accelerated Networking is only supported on clusters where the Machine API is operational.
Enabling Accelerated Networking on an existing Microsoft Azure cluster
You can enable Accelerated Networking on Azure by adding acceleratedNetworking to your machine set YAML file.

Have an existing Microsoft Azure cluster where the Machine API is operational.


Add the following to the providerSpec field:


On the Microsoft Azure portal, review the Networking settings page for a machine provisioned by the machine set, and verify that the Accelerated networking field is set to Enabled.
Enabling Google Cloud Platform features for control plane machines
You can enable Google Cloud Platform (GCP) features on control plane machines by changing the configuration of your control plane machine set. When you save an update to the control plane machine set, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator updates the control plane machines according to your configured update strategy.

Configuring persistent disk types by using machine sets
You can configure the type of persistent disk that a machine set deploys machines on by editing the machine set YAML file.

For more information about persistent disk types, compatibility, regional availability, and limitations, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about persistent disks.

In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following line under the providerSpec field:


Using the Google Cloud console, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the Type field matches the configured disk type.
Configuring Confidential VM by using machine sets
By editing the machine set YAML file, you can configure the Confidential VM options that a machine set uses for machines that it deploys.

For more information about Confidential VM features, functions, and compatibility, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about Confidential VM.

Confidential VMs are currently not supported on 64-bit ARM architectures.
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" "4.15" does not support some Confidential Compute features, such as Confidential VMs with AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP).
In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following section under the providerSpec field:


On the Google Cloud console, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the Confidential VM options match the values that you configured.
Configuring Shielded VM options by using machine sets
By editing the machine set YAML file, you can configure the Shielded VM options that a machine set uses for machines that it deploys.

For more information about Shielded VM features and functionality, see the GCP Compute Engine documentation about Shielded VM.

In a text editor, open the YAML file for an existing machine set or create a new one.

Edit the following section under the providerSpec field:


Using the Google Cloud console, review the details for a machine deployed by the machine set and verify that the Shielded VM options match the values that you configured.


What is Shielded VM?
Enabling customer-managed encryption keys for a machine set
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Compute Engine allows users to supply an encryption key to encrypt data on disks at rest. The key is used to encrypt the data encryption key, not to encrypt the customer's data. By default, Compute Engine encrypts this data by using Compute Engine keys.

You can enable encryption with a customer-managed key in clusters that use the Machine API. You must first create a KMS key and assign the correct permissions to a service account. The KMS key name, key ring name, and location are required to allow a service account to use your key.

If you do not want to use a dedicated service account for the KMS encryption, the Compute Engine default service account is used instead. You must grant the default service account permission to access the keys if you do not use a dedicated service account. The Compute Engine default service account name follows the service-<project_number>@compute-system.iam.gserviceaccount.com pattern.
To allow a specific service account to use your KMS key and to grant the service account the correct IAM role, run the following command with your KMS key name, key ring name, and location:

Configure the encryption key under the providerSpec field in your machine set YAML file. For example:
Updating the configuration for RHOSP control plane machines
You can configure Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) control plane machines by changing the configuration of your control plane machine set. When you save an update to the control plane machine set, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator updates the control plane machines according to your configured update strategy.

Changing the RHOSP compute flavor by using a control plane machine set
You can change the Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) compute service (Nova) flavor that your control plane machines use by updating the specification in the control plane machine set custom resource.

In RHOSP, flavors define the compute, memory, and storage capacity of computing instances. By increasing or decreasing the flavor size, you can scale your control plane vertically.

Your RHOSP cluster uses a control plane machine set.


Edit the following line under the providerSpec field:

Save your changes.


After you save your changes, machines are replaced with ones that use the flavor you chose.