Installing a private cluster on GCP

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.15, you can install a private cluster into an existing VPC on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). The installation program provisions the rest of the required infrastructure, which you can further customize. To customize the installation, you modify parameters in the install-config.yaml file before you install the cluster.
Prerequisites
You reviewed details about the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and update processes.

You read the documentation on selecting a cluster installation method and preparing it for users.

You configured a GCP project to host the cluster.

If you use a firewall, you configured it to allow the sites that your cluster requires access to.
Private clusters
You can deploy a private Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster that does not expose external endpoints. Private clusters are accessible from only an internal network and are not visible to the internet.

By default, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform is provisioned to use publicly-accessible DNS and endpoints. A private cluster sets the DNS, Ingress Controller, and API server to private when you deploy your cluster. This means that the cluster resources are only accessible from your internal network and are not visible to the internet.

If the cluster has any public subnets, load balancer services created by administrators might be publicly accessible. To ensure cluster security, verify that these services are explicitly annotated as private.
To deploy a private cluster, you must:

Use existing networking that meets your requirements. Your cluster resources might be shared between other clusters on the network.

Deploy from a machine that has access to:


You can use any machine that meets these access requirements and follows your company's guidelines. For example, this machine can be a bastion host on your cloud network or a machine that has access to the network through a VPN.

Private clusters in GCP
To create a private cluster on Google Cloud Platform (GCP), you must provide an existing private VPC and subnets to host the cluster. The installation program must also be able to resolve the DNS records that the cluster requires. The installation program configures the Ingress Operator and API server for only internal traffic.

The cluster still requires access to internet to access the GCP APIs.

The following items are not required or created when you install a private cluster:

Public subnets

Public network load balancers, which support public ingress

A public DNS zone that matches the baseDomain for the cluster


The installation program does use the baseDomain that you specify to create a private DNS zone and the required records for the cluster. The cluster is configured so that the Operators do not create public records for the cluster and all cluster machines are placed in the private subnets that you specify.

Because it is not possible to limit access to external load balancers based on source tags, the private cluster uses only internal load balancers to allow access to internal instances.

The internal load balancer relies on instance groups rather than the target pools that the network load balancers use. The installation program creates instance groups for each zone, even if there is no instance in that group.

The cluster IP address is internal only.

One forwarding rule manages both the Kubernetes API and machine config server ports.

The backend service is comprised of each zone's instance group and, while it exists, the bootstrap instance group.

The firewall uses a single rule that is based on only internal source ranges.


Limitations
No health check for the Machine config server, /healthz, runs because of a difference in load balancer functionality. Two internal load balancers cannot share a single IP address, but two network load balancers can share a single external IP address. Instead, the health of an instance is determined entirely by the /readyz check on port 6443.
About using a custom VPC
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, you can deploy a cluster into an existing VPC in Google Cloud Platform (GCP). If you do, you must also use existing subnets within the VPC and routing rules.

By deploying Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform into an existing GCP VPC, you might be able to avoid limit constraints in new accounts or more easily abide by the operational constraints that your company's guidelines set. This is a good option to use if you cannot obtain the infrastructure creation permissions that are required to create the VPC yourself.

Requirements for using your VPC
The installation program will no longer create the following components:

VPC

Subnets

Cloud router

Cloud NAT

NAT IP addresses


If you use a custom VPC, you must correctly configure it and its subnets for the installation program and the cluster to use. The installation program cannot subdivide network ranges for the cluster to use, set route tables for the subnets, or set VPC options like DHCP, so you must do so before you install the cluster.

Your VPC and subnets must meet the following characteristics:

The VPC must be in the same GCP project that you deploy the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster to.

To allow access to the internet from the control plane and compute machines, you must configure cloud NAT on the subnets to allow egress to it. These machines do not have a public address. Even if you do not require access to the internet, you must allow egress to the VPC network to obtain the installation program and images. Because multiple cloud NATs cannot be configured on the shared subnets, the installation program cannot configure it.


To ensure that the subnets that you provide are suitable, the installation program confirms the following data:

All the subnets that you specify exist and belong to the VPC that you specified.

The subnet CIDRs belong to the machine CIDR.

You must provide a subnet to deploy the cluster control plane and compute machines to. You can use the same subnet for both machine types.


If you destroy a cluster that uses an existing VPC, the VPC is not deleted.
Division of permissions
Starting with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.3, you do not need all of the permissions that are required for an installation program-provisioned infrastructure cluster to deploy a cluster. This change mimics the division of permissions that you might have at your company: some individuals can create different resources in your clouds than others. For example, you might be able to create application-specific items, like instances, buckets, and load balancers, but not networking-related components such as VPCs, subnets, or Ingress rules.

The GCP credentials that you use when you create your cluster do not need the networking permissions that are required to make VPCs and core networking components within the VPC, such as subnets, routing tables, internet gateways, NAT, and VPN. You still need permission to make the application resources that the machines within the cluster require, such as load balancers, security groups, storage, and nodes.
Isolation between clusters
If you deploy Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform to an existing network, the isolation of cluster services is preserved by firewall rules that reference the machines in your cluster by the cluster's infrastructure ID. Only traffic within the cluster is allowed.

If you deploy multiple clusters to the same VPC, the following components might share access between clusters:

The API, which is globally available with an external publishing strategy or available throughout the network in an internal publishing strategy

Debugging tools, such as ports on VM instances that are open to the machine CIDR for SSH and ICMP access
Internet access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console] to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access
During an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation, you can provide an SSH public key to the installation program. The key is passed to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes through their Ignition config files and is used to authenticate SSH access to the nodes. The key is added to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys list for the core user on each node, which enables password-less authentication.

After the key is passed to the nodes, you can use the key pair to SSH in to the RHCOS nodes as the user core. To access the nodes through SSH, the private key identity must be managed by SSH for your local user.

If you want to SSH in to your cluster nodes to perform installation debugging or disaster recovery, you must provide the SSH public key during the installation process. The ./openshift-install gather command also requires the SSH public key to be in place on the cluster nodes.

Do not skip this procedure in production environments, where disaster recovery and debugging is required.
You must use a local key, not one that you configured with platform-specific approaches such as AWS key pairs.
If you do not have an existing SSH key pair on your local machine to use for authentication onto your cluster nodes, create one. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command:

View the public SSH key:

Add the SSH private key identity to the SSH agent for your local user, if it has not already been added. SSH agent management of the key is required for password-less SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes, or if you want to use the ./openshift-install gather command.

Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:


When you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, provide the SSH public key to the installation program.
Obtaining the installation program
Before you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, download the installation file on  the host you are using for installation.

You have a computer that runs Linux or macOS, with 500 MB of local disk space.


Access the Infrastructure Provider page on the OpenShift Cluster Manager site. If you have a Red Hat account, log in with your credentials. If you do not, create an account.

Select your infrastructure provider.

Navigate to the page for your installation type, download the installation program that corresponds with your host operating system and architecture, and place the file in the directory where you will store the installation configuration files.

Extract the installation program. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux
operating system, run the following command:

Download your installation https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.
Manually creating the installation configuration file
Installing the cluster requires that you manually create the installation configuration file.

You have an SSH public key on your local machine to provide to the installation program. The key will be used for SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes for debugging and disaster recovery.

You have obtained the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your
cluster.


Create an installation directory to store your required installation assets in:

Customize the sample install-config.yaml file template that is provided and save
it in the <installation_directory>.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use it to install multiple clusters.


Installation configuration parameters for GCP


Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation
Each cluster machine must meet the following minimum requirements:


One vCPU is equivalent to one physical core when simultaneous multithreading (SMT), or hyperthreading, is not enabled. When enabled, use the following formula to calculate the corresponding ratio: (threads per core × cores) × sockets = vCPUs.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform and Kubernetes are sensitive to disk performance, and faster storage is recommended, particularly for etcd on the control plane nodes which require a 10 ms p99 fsync duration. Note that on many cloud platforms, storage size and IOPS scale together, so you might need to over-allocate storage volume to obtain sufficient performance.

As with all user-provisioned installations, if you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you take responsibility for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance, including performing system updates, applying patches, and completing all other required tasks. Use of RHEL 7 compute machines is deprecated and has been removed in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.10 and later.
As of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.13, RHCOS is based on RHEL version 9.2, which updates the micro-architecture requirements. The following list contains the minimum instruction set architectures (ISA) that each architecture requires:

x86-64 architecture requires x86-64-v2 ISA

ARM64 architecture requires ARMv8.0-A ISA

IBM Power architecture requires Power 9 ISA

s390x architecture requires z14 ISA


For more information, see RHEL Architectures.
If an instance type for your platform meets the minimum requirements for cluster machines, it is supported to use in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

Optimizing storage
Tested instance types for GCP
The following Google Cloud Platform instance types have been tested with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/installer/master/docs/user/gcp/tested_instance_types.md
Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures
The following Google Cloud Platform (GCP) 64-bit ARM instance types have been tested with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/installer/master/docs/user/gcp/tested_instance_types_arm.md
Using custom machine types
Using a custom machine type to install a Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster is supported.

Consider the following when using a custom machine type:

Similar to predefined instance types, custom machine types must meet the minimum resource requirements for control plane and compute machines. For more information, see "Minimum resource requirements for cluster installation".

The name of the custom machine type must adhere to the following syntax:


As part of the installation process, you specify the custom machine type in the install-config.yaml file.

compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    gcp:
      type: custom-6-20480
  replicas: 2
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
    gcp:
      type: custom-6-20480
  replicas: 3
Enabling Shielded VMs
You can use Shielded VMs when installing your cluster. Shielded VMs have extra security features including secure boot, firmware and integrity monitoring, and rootkit detection. For more information, see Google's documentation on Shielded VMs.

Shielded VMs are currently not supported on clusters with 64-bit ARM infrastructures.
You have created an install-config.yaml file.


Use a text editor to edit the install-config.yaml file prior to deploying your cluster and add one of the following stanzas:
Enabling Confidential VMs
You can use Confidential VMs when installing your cluster. Confidential VMs encrypt data while it is being processed. For more information, see Google's documentation on Confidential Computing. You can enable Confidential VMs and Shielded VMs at the same time, although they are not dependent on each other.

Confidential VMs are currently not supported on 64-bit ARM architectures.
You have created an install-config.yaml file.


Use a text editor to edit the install-config.yaml file prior to deploying your cluster and add one of the following stanzas:
Sample customized install-config.yaml file for GCP
You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

This sample YAML file is provided for reference only. You must obtain your install-config.yaml file by using the installation program and modify it.
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com 1
credentialsMode: Mint 2
controlPlane: 3 4
  hyperthreading: Enabled 5
  name: master
  platform:
    gcp:
      type: n2-standard-4
      zones:
      - us-central1-a
      - us-central1-c
      osDisk:
        diskType: pd-ssd
        diskSizeGB: 1024
        encryptionKey: 6
          kmsKey:
            name: worker-key
            keyRing: test-machine-keys
            location: global
            projectID: project-id
      tags: 7
      - control-plane-tag1
      - control-plane-tag2
      osImage: 8
        project: example-project-name
        name: example-image-name
  replicas: 3
compute: 3 4
- hyperthreading: Enabled 5
  name: worker
  platform:
    gcp:
      type: n2-standard-4
      zones:
      - us-central1-a
      - us-central1-c
      osDisk:
        diskType: pd-standard
        diskSizeGB: 128
        encryptionKey: 6
          kmsKey:
            name: worker-key
            keyRing: test-machine-keys
            location: global
            projectID: project-id
        tags: 7
        - compute-tag1
        - compute-tag2
        osImage: 8
          project: example-project-name
          name: example-image-name
  replicas: 3
metadata:
  name: test-cluster 1
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
  networkType: OVNKubernetes 9
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  gcp:
    projectID: openshift-production 1
    region: us-central1 1
    defaultMachinePlatform:
      tags: 7
      - global-tag1
      - global-tag2
      osImage: 8
        project: example-project-name
        name: example-image-name
    network: existing_vpc 10
    controlPlaneSubnet: control_plane_subnet 11
    computeSubnet: compute_subnet 12
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}' 1
fips: false 13
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA... 14
publish: Internal 15
Required. The installation program prompts you for this value.

Optional: Add this parameter to force the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) to use the specified mode. By default, the CCO uses the root credentials in the kube-system namespace to dynamically try to determine the capabilities of the credentials. For details about CCO modes, see the "About the Cloud Credential Operator" section in the Authentication and authorization guide.

If you do not provide these parameters and values, the installation program provides the default value.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the first line of the controlPlane section must not. Only one control plane pool is used.

Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or hyperthreading. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by setting the parameter value to Disabled. If you disable simultaneous multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster machines.

Optional: The custom encryption key section to encrypt both virtual machines and persistent volumes. Your default compute service account must have the permissions granted to use your KMS key and have the correct IAM role assigned. The default service account name follows the service-<project_number>@compute-system.iam.gserviceaccount.com pattern. For more information about granting the correct permissions for your service account, see "Machine management" -> "Creating compute machine sets" -> "Creating a compute machine set on GCP".

Optional: A set of network tags to apply to the control plane or compute machine sets. The platform.gcp.defaultMachinePlatform.tags parameter will apply to both control plane and compute machines. If the compute.platform.gcp.tags or controlPlane.platform.gcp.tags parameters are set, they override the platform.gcp.defaultMachinePlatform.tags parameter.

Optional: A custom Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) that should be used to boot control plane and compute machines. The project and name parameters under platform.gcp.defaultMachinePlatform.osImage apply to both control plane and compute machines. If the project and name parameters under controlPlane.platform.gcp.osImage or compute.platform.gcp.osImage are set, they override the platform.gcp.defaultMachinePlatform.osImage parameters.

The cluster network plugin to install. The default value OVNKubernetes is the only supported value.

Specify the name of an existing VPC.

Specify the name of the existing subnet to deploy the control plane machines to. The subnet must belong to the VPC that you specified.

Specify the name of the existing subnet to deploy the compute machines to. The subnet must belong to the VPC that you specified.

Whether to enable or disable FIPS mode. By default, FIPS mode is not enabled. If FIPS mode is enabled, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines that Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform runs on bypass the default Kubernetes cryptography suite and use the cryptography modules that are provided with RHCOS instead.

You can optionally provide the sshKey value that you use to access the machines in your cluster.

How to publish the user-facing endpoints of your cluster. Set publish to Internal to deploy a private cluster, which cannot be accessed from the internet. The default value is External.


Enabling customer-managed encryption keys for a compute machine set
Create an Ingress Controller with global access on GCP
You can create an Ingress Controller that has global access to a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cluster. Global access is only available to Ingress Controllers using internal load balancers.

You created the install-config.yaml and complete any modifications to it.


Create an Ingress Controller with global access on a new GCP cluster.

Change to the directory that contains the installation program and create a manifest file:

Create a file that is named cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml in the <installation_directory>/manifests/ directory:

Open the cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml file in an editor and enter a custom resource (CR) that describes the Operator configuration you want:
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Installing the OpenShift CLI by downloading the binary
You can install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to interact with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15. Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.15 macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Alternatives to storing administrator-level secrets in the kube-system project
By default, administrator secrets are stored in the kube-system project. If you configured the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml file to Manual, you must use one of the following alternatives:

To manage long-term cloud credentials manually, follow the procedure in Manually creating long-term credentials.

To implement short-term credentials that are managed outside the cluster for individual components, follow the procedures in Configuring a GCP cluster to use short-term credentials.


Manually creating long-term credentials
The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) can be put into manual mode prior to installation in environments where the cloud identity and access management (IAM) APIs are not reachable, or the administrator prefers not to store an administrator-level credential secret in the cluster kube-system namespace.

Add the following granular permissions to the GCP account that the installation program uses:

If you did not set the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml configuration file to Manual, modify the value as shown:

If you have not previously created installation manifest files, do so by running the following command:

Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Create YAML files for secrets in the openshift-install manifests directory that you generated previously. The secrets must be stored using the namespace and secret name defined in the spec.secretRef for each CredentialsRequest object.


Before upgrading a cluster that uses manually maintained credentials, you must ensure that the CCO is in an upgradeable state.
Configuring a GCP cluster to use short-term credentials
To install a cluster that is configured to use GCP Workload Identity, you must configure the CCO utility and create the required GCP resources for your cluster.

Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility
To create and manage cloud credentials from outside of the cluster when the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) is operating in manual mode, extract and prepare the CCO utility (ccoctl) binary.

The ccoctl utility is a Linux binary that must run in a Linux environment.
You have access to an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform account with cluster administrator access.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).


You have added one of the following authentication options to the GCP account that the installation program uses:


Obtain the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Obtain the CCO container image from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Extract the ccoctl binary from the CCO container image within the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Change the permissions to make ccoctl executable by running the following command:


To verify that ccoctl is ready to use, display the help file by running the following command:
Creating GCP resources with the Cloud Credential Operator utility
You can use the ccoctl gcp create-all command to automate the creation of GCP resources.

By default, ccoctl creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the --output-dir flag. This procedure uses <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir> to refer to this directory.
You must have:

Extracted and prepared the ccoctl binary.


Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest objects from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Use the ccoctl tool to process all CredentialsRequest objects by running the following command:


To verify that the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform secrets are created, list the files in the <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests directory:
Incorporating the Cloud Credential Operator utility manifests
To implement short-term security credentials managed outside the cluster for individual components, you must move the manifest files that the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) created to the correct directories for the installation program.

You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have configured the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl).

You have created the cloud provider resources that are required for your cluster with the ccoctl utility.


Add the following granular permissions to the GCP account that the installation program uses:

If you did not set the credentialsMode parameter in the install-config.yaml configuration file to Manual, modify the value as shown:

If you have not previously created installation manifest files, do so by running the following command:

Copy the manifests that the ccoctl utility generated to the manifests directory that the installation program created by running the following command:

Copy the private key that the ccoctl utility generated in the tls directory to the installation directory by running the following command:
Deploying the cluster
You can install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have configured an account with the cloud platform that hosts your cluster.

You have the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that the cloud provider account on your host has the correct permissions to deploy the cluster. An account with incorrect permissions causes the installation process to fail with an error message that displays the missing permissions.


Remove any existing GCP credentials that do not use the service account key
for the GCP account that you configured for your cluster and that are stored in the
following locations:

Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:

Optional: You can reduce the number of permissions for the service account that you used to install the cluster.


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI
You can log in to your cluster as a default system user by exporting the cluster kubeconfig file. The kubeconfig file contains information about the cluster that is used by the CLI to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. The file is specific to a cluster and is created during Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation.

You deployed an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

You installed the oc CLI.


Export the kubeadmin credentials:

Verify you can run oc commands successfully using the exported configuration:


See Accessing the web console for more details about accessing and understanding the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.
Telemetry access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.15, the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console].

After you confirm that your https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console] inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.

See About remote health monitoring for more information about the Telemetry service
Next steps
Customize your cluster.

If necessary, you can
opt out of remote health reporting.