Uninstalling a cluster on GCP

You can remove a cluster that you deployed to Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
Removing a cluster that uses installer-provisioned infrastructure
You can remove a cluster that uses installer-provisioned infrastructure from your cloud.

After uninstallation, check your cloud provider for any resources not removed properly, especially with User Provisioned Infrastructure (UPI) clusters. There might be resources that the installer did not create or that the installer is unable to access. For example, some Google Cloud resources require IAM permissions in shared VPC host projects, or there might be unused health checks that must be deleted.
You have a copy of the installation program that you used to deploy the cluster.

You have the files that the installation program generated when you created your
cluster.


From the directory that contains the installation program on the computer that you used to install the cluster, run the following command:

Optional: Delete the <installation_directory> directory and the
Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program.
Deleting Google Cloud Platform resources with the Cloud Credential Operator utility
After uninstalling an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster that uses short-term credentials managed outside the cluster, you can use the CCO utility (ccoctl) to remove the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) resources that ccoctl created during installation.

Extract and prepare the ccoctl binary.

Uninstall an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on GCP that uses short-term credentials.


Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Delete the GCP resources that ccoctl created by running the following command:


To verify that the resources are deleted, query GCP. For more information, refer to GCP documentation.