Configuring alert notifications

In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", an alert is fired when the conditions defined in an alerting rule are true. An alert provides a notification that a set of circumstances are apparent within a cluster. Firing alerts can be viewed in the Alerting UI in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console by default. After an installation, you can configure "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" to send alert notifications to external systems.
Sending notifications to external systems
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, firing alerts can be viewed in the Alerting UI. Alerts are not configured by default to be sent to any notification systems. You can configure "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" to send alerts to the following receiver types:

PagerDuty

Webhook

Email

Slack


Routing alerts to receivers enables you to send timely notifications to the appropriate teams when failures occur. For example, critical alerts require immediate attention and are typically paged to an individual or a critical response team. Alerts that provide non-critical warning notifications might instead be routed to a ticketing system for non-immediate review.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" monitoring includes a watchdog alert that fires continuously. Alertmanager repeatedly sends watchdog alert notifications to configured notification providers. The provider is usually configured to notify an administrator when it stops receiving the watchdog alert. This mechanism helps you quickly identify any communication issues between Alertmanager and the notification provider.

Configuring alert receivers
You can configure alert receivers to ensure that you learn about important issues with your cluster.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin cluster role.


In the Administrator perspective, go to Administration -> Cluster Settings -> Configuration -> Alertmanager.

Click Create Receiver in the Receivers section of the page.

In the Create Receiver form, add a Receiver name and choose a Receiver type from the list.

Edit the receiver configuration:

By default, firing alerts with labels that match all of the selectors are sent to the receiver. If you want label values for firing alerts to be matched exactly before they are sent to the receiver, perform the following steps:

Click Create to create the receiver.
Additional resources
Monitoring overview

Managing alerts