RHCOS image layering

Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image layering allows you to easily extend the functionality of your base RHCOS image by layering additional images onto the base image. This layering does not modify the base RHCOS image. Instead, it creates a custom layered image that includes all RHCOS functionality and adds additional functionality to specific nodes in the cluster.

You create a custom layered image by using a Containerfile and applying it to nodes by using a MachineConfig object. The Machine Config Operator overrides the base RHCOS image, as specified by the osImageURL value in the associated machine config, and boots the new image. You can remove the custom layered image by deleting the machine config, The MCO reboots the nodes back to the base RHCOS image.

With RHCOS image layering, you can install RPMs into your base image, and your custom content will be booted alongside RHCOS. The Machine Config Operator (MCO) can roll out these custom layered images and monitor these custom containers in the same way it does for the default RHCOS image. RHCOS image layering gives you greater flexibility in how you manage your RHCOS nodes.

Installing realtime kernel and extensions RPMs as custom layered content is not recommended. This is because these RPMs can conflict with RPMs installed by using a machine config. If there is a conflict, the MCO enters a degraded state when it tries to install the machine config RPM. You need to remove the conflicting extension from your machine config before proceeding.
As soon as you apply the custom layered image to your cluster, you effectively take ownership of your custom layered images and those nodes. While Red Hat remains responsible for maintaining and updating the base RHCOS image on standard nodes, you are responsible for maintaining and updating images on nodes that use a custom layered image. You assume the responsibility for the package you applied with the custom layered image and any issues that might arise with the package.

To apply a custom layered image, you create a Containerfile that references an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image and the RPM that you want to apply. You then push the resulting custom layered image to an image registry. In a non-production Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster, create a MachineConfig object for the targeted node pool that points to the new image.

Use the same base RHCOS image installed on the rest of your cluster. Use the oc adm release info --image-for rhel-coreos command to obtain the base image used in your cluster.
RHCOS image layering allows you to use the following types of images to create custom layered images:

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Hotfixes. You can work with Customer Experience and Engagement (CEE) to obtain and apply Hotfix packages on top of your RHCOS image. In some instances, you might want a bug fix or enhancement before it is included in an official Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release. RHCOS image layering allows you to easily add the Hotfix before it is officially released and remove the Hotfix when the underlying RHCOS image incorporates the fix.

RHEL packages. You can download Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) packages from the Red Hat Customer Portal, such as chrony, firewalld, and iputils.

Third-party packages. You can download and install RPMs from third-party organizations, such as the following types of packages:


After you create the machine config, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) performs the following steps:

Renders a new machine config for the specified pool or pools.

Performs cordon and drain operations on the nodes in the pool or pools.

Writes the rest of the machine config parameters onto the nodes.

Applies the custom layered image to the node.

Reboots the node using the new image.


It is strongly recommended that you test your images outside of your production environment before rolling out to your cluster.
Applying a RHCOS custom layered image
You can easily configure Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image layering on the nodes in specific machine config pools. The Machine Config Operator (MCO) reboots those nodes with the new custom layered image, overriding the base Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image.

To apply a custom layered image to your cluster, you must have the custom layered image in a repository that your cluster can access. Then, create a MachineConfig object that points to the custom layered image. You need a separate MachineConfig object for each machine config pool that you want to configure.

When you configure a custom layered image, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform no longer automatically updates any node that uses the custom layered image. You become responsible for manually updating your nodes as appropriate. If you roll back the custom layer, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform will again automatically update the node. See the Additional resources section that follows for important information about updating nodes that use a custom layered image.
You must create a custom layered image that is based on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image digest, not a tag.

Because the process for building a custom layered image is performed outside of the cluster, you must use the --authfile /path/to/pull-secret option with Podman or Buildah. Alternatively, to have the pull secret read by these tools automatically, you can add it to one of the default file locations: ~/.docker/config.json, $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/containers/auth.json, ~/.docker/config.json, or ~/.dockercfg. Refer to the containers-auth.json man page for more information.

You must push the custom layered image to a repository that your cluster can access.


Create a machine config file.


You can verify that the custom layered image is applied by performing any of the following checks:

Check that the worker machine config pool has rolled out with the new machine config:

When the node is back in the Ready state, check that the node is using the custom layered image:


Updating with a RHCOS custom layered image
Removing a RHCOS custom layered image
You can easily revert Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image layering from the nodes in specific machine config pools. The Machine Config Operator (MCO) reboots those nodes with the cluster base Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image, overriding the custom layered image.

To remove a Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) custom layered image from your cluster, you need to delete the machine config that applied the image.

Delete the machine config that applied the custom layered image.


You can verify that the custom layered image is removed by performing any of the following checks:

Check that the worker machine config pool is updating with the previous machine config:

Check the nodes to see that scheduling on the nodes is disabled. This indicates that the change is being applied:

When the node is back in the Ready state, check that the node is using the base image:
Updating with a RHCOS custom layered image
When you configure Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image layering, Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform no longer automatically updates the node pool that uses the custom layered image. You become responsible to manually update your nodes as appropriate.

To update a node that uses a custom layered image, follow these general steps:

The cluster automatically upgrades to version x.y.z+1, except for the nodes that use the custom layered image.

You could then create a new Containerfile that references the updated Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform image and the RPM that you had previously applied.

Create a new machine config that points to the updated custom layered image.


Updating a node with a custom layered image is not required. However, if that node gets too far behind the current Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version, you could experience unexpected results.