Postinstallation configuration overview

After installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", a cluster administrator can configure and customize the following components:

Machine

Bare metal

Cluster

Node

Network

Storage

Users

Alerts and notifications
Post-installation configuration tasks
You can perform the post-installation configuration tasks to configure your environment to meet your need.

The following lists details these configurations:

Configure operating system features: The Machine Config Operator (MCO) manages MachineConfig objects. By using the MCO, you can configure nodes and custom resources.

Configure bare metal nodes: You can use the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) to manage bare metal hosts. The BMO can complete the following operations:

Configure cluster features. You can modify the following features of an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster:

Configuring a private cluster: By default, the installation program provisions "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" by using a publicly accessible DNS and endpoints. To make your cluster accessible only from within an internal network, configure the following components to make them private:

Perform node operations: By default, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" uses Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines. You can perform the following node operations:

Configure network: After installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", you can configure the following components:

Configure storage:
By default, containers operate by using the ephemeral storage or transient local storage. The ephemeral storage has a lifetime limitation. To store the data for a long time, you must configure persistent storage. You can configure storage by using one of the following methods:

Configure users: OAuth access tokens allow users to authenticate themselves to the API. You can configure OAuth to perform the following tasks:

Specify an identity provider

Use role-based access control to define and supply permissions to users

Install an Operator from OperatorHub

Configuring alert notifications: By default, firing alerts are displayed on the Alerting UI of the web console. You can also configure "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" to send alert notifications to external systems.