Configuring the vSphere connection settings after an installation
After installing an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on vSphere with the platform integration feature enabled, you might need to update the vSphere connection settings manually, depending on the installation method.

For installations using the Assisted Installer, you must update the connection settings. This is because the Assisted Installer adds default connection settings to the vSphere connection configuration wizard as placeholders during the installation.

For installer-provisioned or user-provisioned infrastructure installations, you should have entered valid connection settings during the installation. You can use the vSphere connection configuration wizard at any time to validate or modify the connection settings, but this is not mandatory for completing the installation.
Configuring the vSphere connection settings
Modify the following vSphere configuration settings as required:

vCenter address

vCenter cluster

vCenter username

vCenter password

vCenter address

vSphere data center

vSphere datastore

Virtual machine folder


The Assisted Installer has finished installing the cluster successfully.

The cluster is connected to https://console.redhat.com.


In the Administrator perspective, navigate to Home -> Overview.

Under Status, click vSphere connection to open the vSphere connection configuration wizard.

In the vCenter field, enter the network address of the vSphere vCenter server. This can be either a domain name or an IP address. It appears in the vSphere web client URL; for example https://[your_vCenter_address]/ui.

In the vCenter cluster field, enter the name of the vSphere vCenter cluster where "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" is installed.

In the Username field, enter your vSphere vCenter username.

In the Password field, enter your vSphere vCenter password.

In the Datacenter field, enter the name of the vSphere data center that contains the virtual machines used to host the cluster; for example, SDDC-Datacenter.

In the Default data store field, enter the path and name of the vSphere data store that stores the persistent data volumes; for example, /SDDC-Datacenter/datastore/datastorename.

In the Virtual Machine Folder field, enter the data center folder that contains the virtual machine of the cluster; for example, /SDDC-Datacenter/vm/ci-ln-hjg4vg2-c61657-t2gzr. For the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation to succeed, all virtual machines comprising the cluster must be located in a single data center folder.

Click Save Configuration. This updates the cloud-provider-config ConfigMap resource in the openshift-config namespace, and starts the configuration process.

Reopen the vSphere connection configuration wizard and expand the Monitored operators panel. Check that the status of the operators is either Progressing or Healthy.
Verifying the configuration
The connection configuration process updates operator statuses and control plane nodes. It takes approximately an hour to complete. During the configuration process, the nodes will reboot. Previously bound PersistentVolumeClaims objects might become disconnected.

You have saved the configuration settings in the vSphere connection configuration wizard.


Check that the configuration process completed successfully:

Check that you are able to bind PersistentVolumeClaims objects by performing the following steps:


For instructions on creating storage objects, see Dynamic provisioning.