Postinstallation node tasks

After installing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", you can further expand and customize your cluster to your requirements through certain node tasks.
Adding RHEL compute machines to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster
Understand and work with RHEL compute nodes.

About adding RHEL compute nodes to a cluster
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, you have the option of using Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) machines as compute machines in your cluster if you use a user-provisioned or installer-provisioned infrastructure installation on the x86_64 architecture. You must use Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines for the control plane machines in your cluster.

If you choose to use RHEL compute machines in your cluster, you are responsible for all operating system life cycle management and maintenance. You must perform system updates, apply patches, and complete all other required tasks.

For installer-provisioned infrastructure clusters, you must manually add RHEL compute machines because automatic scaling in installer-provisioned infrastructure clusters adds Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines by default.

Because removing "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" from a machine in the cluster requires destroying the operating system, you must use dedicated hardware for any RHEL machines that you add to the cluster.

Swap memory is disabled on all RHEL machines that you add to your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. You cannot enable swap memory on these machines.
You must add any RHEL compute machines to the cluster after you initialize the control plane.
System requirements for RHEL compute nodes
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machine hosts in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" environment must meet the following minimum hardware specifications and system-level requirements:

You must have an active "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscription on your Red Hat account. If you do not, contact your sales representative for more information.

Production environments must provide compute machines to support your expected workloads. As a cluster administrator, you must calculate the expected workload and add about 10% for overhead. For production environments, allocate enough resources so that a node host failure does not affect your maximum capacity.

Each system must meet the following hardware requirements:

Each system must meet any additional requirements for your system provider. For example, if you installed your cluster on VMware vSphere, your disks must be configured according to its storage guidelines and the disk.enableUUID=true attribute must be set.

Each system must be able to access the cluster's API endpoints by using DNS-resolvable hostnames. Any network security access control that is in place must allow system access to the cluster's API service endpoints.


Deleting nodes


Certificate signing requests management
Because your cluster has limited access to automatic machine management when you use infrastructure that you provision, you must provide a mechanism for approving cluster certificate signing requests (CSRs) after installation. The kube-controller-manager only approves the kubelet client CSRs. The machine-approver cannot guarantee the validity of a serving certificate that is requested by using kubelet credentials because it cannot confirm that the correct machine issued the request. You must determine and implement a method of verifying the validity of the kubelet serving certificate requests and approving them.
Preparing the machine to run the playbook
Before you can add compute machines that use Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) as the operating system to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} cluster, you must prepare a RHEL 8 machine to run an Ansible playbook that adds the new node to the cluster. This machine is not part of the cluster but must be able to access it.

Install the OpenShift CLI (oc) on the machine that you run the playbook on.

Log in as a user with cluster-admin permission.


Ensure that the kubeconfig file for the cluster and the installation program that you used to install the cluster are on the RHEL 8 machine. One way to accomplish this is to use the same machine that you used to install the cluster.

Configure the machine to access all of the RHEL hosts that you plan to use as compute machines. You can use any method that your company allows, including a bastion with an SSH proxy or a VPN.

Configure a user on the machine that you run the playbook on that has SSH access to all of the RHEL hosts.

If you have not already done so, register the machine with RHSM and attach a pool with an OpenShift subscription to it:

Enable the repositories required by "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}:

Install the required packages, including openshift-ansible:
Preparing a RHEL compute node
Before you add a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) machine to your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, you must register each host with Red Hat Subscription Manager (RHSM), attach an active "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscription, and enable the required repositories.

On each host, register with RHSM:

Pull the latest subscription data from RHSM:

List the available subscriptions:

In the output for the previous command, find the pool ID for an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" subscription and attach it:

Disable all yum repositories:

Enable only the repositories required by "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}:

Stop and disable firewalld on the host:
Adding a RHEL compute machine to your cluster
You can add compute machines that use Red Hat Enterprise Linux as the operating system to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} cluster.

You installed the required packages and performed the necessary configuration on the machine that you run the playbook on.

You prepared the RHEL hosts for installation.


Perform the following steps on the machine that you prepared to run the playbook:

Create an Ansible inventory file that is named /<path>/inventory/hosts that defines your compute machine hosts and required variables:

Navigate to the Ansible playbook directory:

Run the playbook:
Required parameters for the Ansible hosts file
You must define the following parameters in the Ansible hosts file before you add Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines to your cluster.
Optional: Removing RHCOS compute machines from a cluster
After you add the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) compute machines to your cluster, you can optionally remove the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines to free up resources.

You have added RHEL compute machines to your cluster.


View the list of machines and record the node names of the RHCOS compute machines:

For each RHCOS compute machine, delete the node:

Review the list of compute machines to ensure that only the RHEL nodes remain:

Remove the RHCOS machines from the load balancer for your cluster's compute machines. You can delete the virtual machines or reimage the physical hardware for the RHCOS compute machines.
Adding RHCOS compute machines to an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster
You can add more Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines to your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on bare metal.

Before you add more compute machines to a cluster that you installed on bare metal infrastructure, you must create RHCOS machines for it to use. You can either use an ISO image or network PXE booting to create the machines.

Prerequisites
You installed a cluster on bare metal.

You have installation media and Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) images that you used to create your cluster. If you do not have these files, you must obtain them by following the instructions in the installation procedure.
Creating RHCOS machines using an ISO image
You can create more Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines for your bare metal cluster by using an ISO image to create the machines.

Obtain the URL of the Ignition config file for the compute machines for your cluster. You uploaded this file to your HTTP server during installation.

You must have the OpenShift CLI (oc)  installed.


Extract the Ignition config file from the cluster by running the following command:

Upload the worker.ign Ignition config file you exported from your cluster to your HTTP server. Note the URLs of these files.

You can validate that the ignition files are available on the URLs. The following example gets the Ignition config files for the compute node:

You can access the ISO image for booting your new machine by running to following command:

Use the ISO file to install RHCOS on more compute machines. Use the same method that you used when you created machines before you installed the cluster:

Boot the RHCOS ISO image without specifying any options, or interrupting the live boot sequence. Wait for the installer to boot into a shell prompt in the RHCOS live environment.

Run the coreos-installer command and specify the options that meet your installation requirements. At a minimum, you must specify the URL that points to the Ignition config file for the node type, and the device that you are installing to:

Monitor the progress of the RHCOS installation on the console of the machine.

Continue to create more compute machines for your cluster.
Creating RHCOS machines by PXE or iPXE booting
You can create more Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute machines for your bare metal cluster by using PXE or iPXE booting.

Obtain the URL of the Ignition config file for the compute machines for your cluster. You uploaded this file to your HTTP server during installation.

Obtain the URLs of the RHCOS ISO image, compressed metal BIOS, kernel, and initramfs files that you uploaded to your HTTP server during cluster installation.

You have access to the PXE booting infrastructure that you used to create the machines for your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster during installation. The machines must boot from their local disks after RHCOS is installed on them.

If you use UEFI, you have access to the grub.conf file that you modified during "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation.


Confirm that your PXE or iPXE installation for the RHCOS images is correct.

Use the PXE or iPXE infrastructure to create the required compute machines for your cluster.
Approving the certificate signing requests for your machines
When you add machines to a cluster, two pending certificate signing requests (CSRs) are generated for each machine that you added. You must confirm that these CSRs are approved or, if necessary, approve them yourself. The client requests must be approved first, followed by the server requests.

You added machines to your cluster.


Confirm that the cluster recognizes the machines:

Review the pending CSRs and ensure that you see the client requests with the Pending or Approved status for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the CSRs were not approved, after all of the pending CSRs for the machines you added are in Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

Now that your client requests are approved, you must review the server requests for each machine that you added to the cluster:

If the remaining CSRs are not approved, and are in the Pending status, approve the CSRs for your cluster machines:

After all client and server CSRs have been approved, the machines have the Ready status. Verify this by running the following command:


For more information on CSRs, see Certificate Signing Requests.
Adding a new RHCOS worker node with a custom /var partition in AWS
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports partitioning devices during installation by using machine configs that are processed during the bootstrap. However, if you use /var partitioning, the device name must be determined at installation and cannot be changed. You cannot add different instance types as nodes if they have a different device naming schema. For example, if you configured the /var partition with the default AWS device name for m4.large instances, dev/xvdb, you cannot directly add an AWS m5.large instance, as m5.large instances use a /dev/nvme1n1 device by default. The device might fail to partition due to the different naming schema.

The procedure in this section shows how to add a new Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) compute node with an instance that uses a different device name from what was configured at installation. You create a custom user data secret and configure a new compute machine set. These steps are specific to an AWS cluster. The principles apply to other cloud deployments also. However, the device naming schema is different for other deployments and should be determined on a per-case basis.

On a command line, change to the openshift-machine-api namespace:

Create a new secret from the worker-user-data secret:

Create a new compute machine set for the new node:

Verify that the new partition and nodes are created:


For more information on how "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" uses disk partitioning, see Disk partitioning.
Deploying machine health checks
Understand and deploy machine health checks.

You can use the advanced machine management and scaling capabilities only in clusters where the Machine API is operational. Clusters with user-provisioned infrastructure require additional validation and configuration to use the Machine API.

Clusters with the infrastructure platform type none cannot use the Machine API. This limitation applies even if the compute machines that are attached to the cluster are installed on a platform that supports the feature. This parameter cannot be changed after installation.

To view the platform type for your cluster, run the following command:

$ oc get infrastructure cluster -o jsonpath='{.status.platform}'
About machine health checks
You can only apply a machine health check to machines that are managed by compute machine sets or control plane machine sets.
To monitor machine health, create a resource to define the configuration for a controller. Set a condition to check, such as staying in the NotReady status for five minutes or displaying a permanent condition in the node-problem-detector, and a label for the set of machines to monitor.

The controller that observes a MachineHealthCheck resource checks for the defined condition. If a machine fails the health check, the machine is automatically deleted and one is created to take its place. When a machine is deleted, you see a machine deleted event.

To limit disruptive impact of the machine deletion, the controller drains and deletes only one node at a time. If there are more unhealthy machines than the maxUnhealthy threshold allows for in the targeted pool of machines, remediation stops and therefore enables manual intervention.

Consider the timeouts carefully, accounting for workloads and requirements.

Long timeouts can result in long periods of downtime for the workload on the unhealthy machine.

Too short timeouts can result in a remediation loop. For example, the timeout for checking the NotReady status must be long enough to allow the machine to complete the startup process.
To stop the check, remove the resource.

Limitations when deploying machine health checks
There are limitations to consider before deploying a machine health check:

Only machines owned by a machine set are remediated by a machine health check.

If the node for a machine is removed from the cluster, a machine health check considers the machine to be unhealthy and remediates it immediately.

If the corresponding node for a machine does not join the cluster after the nodeStartupTimeout, the machine is remediated.

A machine is remediated immediately if the Machine resource phase is Failed.


About control plane machine sets
Sample MachineHealthCheck resource
The MachineHealthCheck resource for all cloud-based installation types, and other than bare metal, resembles the following YAML file:

apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineHealthCheck
metadata:
  name: example 1
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <role> 2
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <role> 2
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <cluster_name>-<label>-<zone> 3
  unhealthyConditions:
  - type:    "Ready"
    timeout: "300s" 4
    status: "False"
  - type:    "Ready"
    timeout: "300s" 4
    status: "Unknown"
  maxUnhealthy: "40%" 5
  nodeStartupTimeout: "10m" 6
Specify the name of the machine health check to deploy.

Specify a label for the machine pool that you want to check.

Specify the machine set to track in <cluster_name>-<label>-<zone> format. For example, prod-node-us-east-1a.

Specify the timeout duration for a node condition. If a condition is met for the duration of the timeout, the machine will be remediated. Long timeouts can result in long periods of downtime for a workload on an unhealthy machine.

Specify the amount of machines allowed to be concurrently remediated in the targeted pool. This can be set as a percentage or an integer. If the number of unhealthy machines exceeds the limit set by maxUnhealthy, remediation is not performed.

Specify the timeout duration that a machine health check must wait for a node to join the cluster before a machine is determined to be unhealthy.


The matchLabels are examples only; you must map your machine groups based on your specific needs.
Short-circuiting machine health check remediation
Short-circuiting ensures that machine health checks remediate machines only when the cluster is healthy. Short-circuiting is configured through the maxUnhealthy field in the MachineHealthCheck resource.

If the user defines a value for the maxUnhealthy field, before remediating any machines, the MachineHealthCheck compares the value of maxUnhealthy with the number of machines within its target pool that it has determined to be unhealthy. Remediation is not performed if the number of unhealthy machines exceeds the maxUnhealthy limit.

If maxUnhealthy is not set, the value defaults to 100% and the machines are remediated regardless of the state of the cluster.
The appropriate maxUnhealthy value depends on the scale of the cluster you deploy and how many machines the MachineHealthCheck covers. For example, you can use the maxUnhealthy value to cover multiple compute machine sets across multiple availability zones so that if you lose an entire zone, your maxUnhealthy setting prevents further remediation within the cluster. In global Azure regions that do not have multiple availability zones, you can use availability sets to ensure high availability.

If you configure a MachineHealthCheck resource for the control plane, set the value of maxUnhealthy to 1.

This configuration ensures that the machine health check takes no action when multiple control plane machines appear to be unhealthy. Multiple unhealthy control plane machines can indicate that the etcd cluster is degraded or that a scaling operation to replace a failed machine is in progress.

If the etcd cluster is degraded, manual intervention might be required. If a scaling operation is in progress, the machine health check should allow it to finish.
The maxUnhealthy field can be set as either an integer or percentage. There are different remediation implementations depending on the maxUnhealthy value.

Setting maxUnhealthy by using an absolute value
If maxUnhealthy is set to 2:

Remediation will be performed if 2 or fewer nodes are unhealthy

Remediation will not be performed if 3 or more nodes are unhealthy


These values are independent of how many machines are being checked by the machine health check.
Setting maxUnhealthy by using percentages
If maxUnhealthy is set to 40% and there are 25 machines being checked:

Remediation will be performed if 10 or fewer nodes are unhealthy

Remediation will not be performed if 11 or more nodes are unhealthy


If maxUnhealthy is set to 40% and there are 6 machines being checked:

Remediation will be performed if 2 or fewer nodes are unhealthy

Remediation will not be performed if 3 or more nodes are unhealthy


The allowed number of machines is rounded down when the percentage of maxUnhealthy machines that are checked is not a whole number.
Creating a machine health check resource
You can create a MachineHealthCheck resource for machine sets in your cluster.

You can only apply a machine health check to machines that are managed by compute machine sets or control plane machine sets.
Install the oc command line interface.


Create a healthcheck.yml file that contains the definition of your machine health check.

Apply the healthcheck.yml file to your cluster:
Scaling a compute machine set manually
To add or remove an instance of a machine in a compute machine set, you can manually scale the compute machine set.

This guidance is relevant to fully automated, installer-provisioned infrastructure installations. Customized, user-provisioned infrastructure installations do not have compute machine sets.

Install an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster and the oc command line.

Log in to  oc as a user with cluster-admin permission.


View the compute machine sets that are in the cluster by running the following command:

View the compute machines that are in the cluster by running the following command:

Set the annotation on the compute machine that you want to delete by running the following command:

Scale the compute machine set by running one of the following commands:


Verify the deletion of the intended machine by running the following command:
Understanding the difference between compute machine sets and the machine config pool
MachineSet objects describe "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes with respect to the cloud or machine provider.

The MachineConfigPool object allows MachineConfigController components to define and provide the status of machines in the context of upgrades.

The MachineConfigPool object allows users to configure how upgrades are rolled out to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes in the machine config pool.

The NodeSelector object can be replaced with a reference to the MachineSet object.
Recommended node host practices
The "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" node configuration file contains important options. For example, two parameters control the maximum number of pods that can be scheduled to a node: podsPerCore and maxPods.

When both options are in use, the lower of the two values limits the number of pods on a node. Exceeding these values can result in:

Increased CPU utilization.

Slow pod scheduling.

Potential out-of-memory scenarios, depending on the amount of memory in the node.

Exhausting the pool of IP addresses.

Resource overcommitting, leading to poor user application performance.


In Kubernetes, a pod that is holding a single container actually uses two containers. The second container is used to set up networking prior to the actual container starting. Therefore, a system running 10 pods will actually have 20 containers running.
Disk IOPS throttling from the cloud provider might have an impact on CRI-O and kubelet. They might get overloaded when there are large number of I/O intensive pods running on the nodes. It is recommended that you monitor the disk I/O on the nodes and use volumes with sufficient throughput for the workload.
The podsPerCore parameter sets the number of pods the node can run based on the number of processor cores on the node. For example, if podsPerCore is set to 10 on a node with 4 processor cores, the maximum number of pods allowed on the node will be 40.

kubeletConfig:
  podsPerCore: 10
Setting podsPerCore to 0 disables this limit. The default is 0. The value of the podsPerCore parameter cannot exceed the value of the maxPods parameter.

The maxPods parameter sets the number of pods the node can run to a fixed value, regardless of the properties of the node.

 kubeletConfig:
    maxPods: 250
Creating a KubeletConfig CRD to edit kubelet parameters
The kubelet configuration is currently serialized as an Ignition configuration, so it can be directly edited. However, there is also a new kubelet-config-controller added to the Machine Config Controller (MCC). This lets you use a KubeletConfig custom resource (CR) to edit the kubelet parameters.

As the fields in the kubeletConfig object are passed directly to the kubelet from upstream Kubernetes, the kubelet validates those values directly. Invalid values in the kubeletConfig object might cause cluster nodes to become unavailable. For valid values, see the Kubernetes documentation.
Consider the following guidance:

Create one KubeletConfig CR for each machine config pool with all the config changes you want for that pool. If you are applying the same content to all of the pools, you need only one KubeletConfig CR for all of the pools.

Edit an existing KubeletConfig CR to modify existing settings or add new settings, instead of creating a CR for each change. It is recommended that you create a CR only to modify a different machine config pool, or for changes that are intended to be temporary, so that you can revert the changes.

As needed, create multiple KubeletConfig CRs with a limit of 10 per cluster. For the first KubeletConfig CR, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) creates a machine config appended with kubelet. With each subsequent CR, the controller creates another kubelet machine config with a numeric suffix. For example, if you have a kubelet machine config with a -2 suffix, the next kubelet machine config is appended with -3.


If you want to delete the machine configs, delete them in reverse order to avoid exceeding the limit. For example, you delete the kubelet-3 machine config before deleting the kubelet-2 machine config.

If you have a machine config with a kubelet-9 suffix, and you create another KubeletConfig CR, a new machine config is not created, even if there are fewer than 10 kubelet machine configs.
$ oc get kubeletconfig
NAME                AGE
set-max-pods        15m
$ oc get mc | grep kubelet
...
99-worker-generated-kubelet-1                  b5c5119de007945b6fe6fb215db3b8e2ceb12511   3.2.0             26m
...
The following procedure is an example to show how to configure the maximum number of pods per node on the worker nodes.

Obtain the label associated with the static MachineConfigPool CR for the type of node you want to configure.
Perform one of the following steps:


View the available machine configuration objects that you can select:

Check the current value for the maximum pods per node:

Set the maximum pods per node on the worker nodes by creating a custom resource file that contains the kubelet configuration:

Verify that the changes are applied to the node:

Verify the change in the KubeletConfig object:
Modifying the number of unavailable worker nodes
By default, only one machine is allowed to be unavailable when applying the kubelet-related configuration to the available worker nodes. For a large cluster, it can take a long time for the configuration change to be reflected. At any time, you can adjust the number of machines that are updating to speed up the process.

Edit the worker machine config pool:

Add the maxUnavailable field and set the value:
Control plane node sizing
The control plane node resource requirements depend on the number and type of nodes and objects in the cluster. The following control plane node size recommendations are based on the results of a control plane density focused testing, or Cluster-density. This test creates the following objects across a given number of namespaces:

1 image stream

1 build

5 deployments, with 2 pod replicas in a sleep state, mounting 4 secrets, 4 config maps, and 1 downward API volume each

5 services, each one pointing to the TCP/8080 and TCP/8443 ports of one of the previous deployments

1 route pointing to the first of the previous services

10 secrets containing 2048 random string characters

10 config maps containing 2048 random string characters



The data from the table above is based on an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" running on top of AWS, using r5.4xlarge instances as control-plane nodes and m5.2xlarge instances as worker nodes.

On a large and dense cluster with three control plane nodes, the CPU and memory usage will spike up when one of the nodes is stopped, rebooted, or fails. The failures can be due to unexpected issues with power, network, underlying infrastructure, or intentional cases where the cluster is restarted after shutting it down to save costs. The remaining two control plane nodes must handle the load in order to be highly available, which leads to increase in the resource usage. This is also expected during upgrades because the control plane nodes are cordoned, drained, and rebooted serially to apply the operating system updates, as well as the control plane Operators update. To avoid cascading failures, keep the overall CPU and memory resource usage on the control plane nodes to at most 60% of all available capacity to handle the resource usage spikes. Increase the CPU and memory on the control plane nodes accordingly to avoid potential downtime due to lack of resources.

The node sizing varies depending on the number of nodes and object counts in the cluster. It also depends on whether the objects are actively being created on the cluster. During object creation, the control plane is more active in terms of resource usage compared to when the objects are in the running phase.
Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM ) runs on the control plane nodes and its memory footprint depends on the number of namespaces and user installed operators that OLM needs to manage on the cluster. Control plane nodes need to be sized accordingly to avoid OOM kills. Following data points are based on the results from cluster maximums testing.


You can modify the control plane node size in a running "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version} cluster for the following configurations only:

Clusters installed with a user-provisioned installation method.

AWS clusters installed with an installer-provisioned infrastructure installation method.

Clusters that use a control plane machine set to manage control plane machines.


For all other configurations, you must estimate your total node count and use the suggested control plane node size during installation.
The recommendations are based on the data points captured on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" clusters with OpenShift SDN as the network plugin.
In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" {product-version}, half of a CPU core (500 millicore) is now reserved by the system by default compared to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 3.11 and previous versions. The sizes are determined taking that into consideration.
Setting up CPU Manager
Optional: Label a node:

Edit the MachineConfigPool of the nodes where CPU Manager should be enabled. In this example, all workers have CPU Manager enabled:

Add a label to the worker machine config pool:

Create a KubeletConfig, cpumanager-kubeletconfig.yaml, custom resource (CR). Refer to the label created in the previous step to have the correct nodes updated with the new kubelet config. See the machineConfigPoolSelector section:

Create the dynamic kubelet config:

Check for the merged kubelet config:

Check the worker for the updated kubelet.conf:

Create a pod that requests a core or multiple cores. Both limits and requests must have their CPU value set to a whole integer. That is the number of cores that will be dedicated to this pod:

Create the pod:

Verify that the pod is scheduled to the node that you labeled:

Verify that the cgroups are set up correctly. Get the process ID (PID) of the pause process:

Check the allowed CPU list for the task:

Verify that another pod (in this case, the pod in the burstable QoS tier) on the system cannot run on the core allocated for the Guaranteed pod:
Huge pages
Understand and configure huge pages.

What huge pages do
Memory is managed in blocks known as pages. On most systems, a page is 4Ki. 1Mi of memory is equal to 256 pages; 1Gi of memory is 256,000 pages, and so on. CPUs have a built-in memory management unit that manages a list of these pages in hardware. The Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) is a small hardware cache of virtual-to-physical page mappings. If the virtual address passed in a hardware instruction can be found in the TLB, the mapping can be determined quickly. If not, a TLB miss occurs, and the system falls back to slower, software-based address translation, resulting in performance issues. Since the size of the TLB is fixed, the only way to reduce the chance of a TLB miss is to increase the page size.

A huge page is a memory page that is larger than 4Ki. On x86_64 architectures, there are two common huge page sizes: 2Mi and 1Gi. Sizes vary on other architectures. To use huge pages, code must be written so that applications are aware of them. Transparent Huge Pages (THP) attempt to automate the management of huge pages without application knowledge, but they have limitations. In particular, they are limited to 2Mi page sizes. THP can lead to performance degradation on nodes with high memory utilization or fragmentation due to defragmenting efforts of THP, which can lock memory pages. For this reason, some applications may be designed to (or recommend) usage of pre-allocated huge pages instead of THP.
How huge pages are consumed by apps
Nodes must pre-allocate huge pages in order for the node to report its huge page capacity. A node can only pre-allocate huge pages for a single size.

Huge pages can be consumed through container-level resource requirements using the resource name hugepages-<size>, where size is the most compact binary notation using integer values supported on a particular node. For example, if a node supports 2048KiB page sizes, it exposes a schedulable resource hugepages-2Mi. Unlike CPU or memory, huge pages do not support over-commitment.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  generateName: hugepages-volume-
spec:
  containers:
  - securityContext:
      privileged: true
    image: rhel7:latest
    command:
    - sleep
    - inf
    name: example
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /dev/hugepages
      name: hugepage
    resources:
      limits:
        hugepages-2Mi: 100Mi 1
        memory: "1Gi"
        cpu: "1"
  volumes:
  - name: hugepage
    emptyDir:
      medium: HugePages
Specify the amount of memory for hugepages as the exact amount to be
allocated. Do not specify this value as the amount of memory for hugepages
multiplied by the size of the page. For example, given a huge page size of 2MB,
if you want to use 100MB of huge-page-backed RAM for your application, then you
would allocate 50 huge pages. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" handles the math for you. As in
the above example, you can specify 100MB directly.


Allocating huge pages of a specific size

Some platforms support multiple huge page sizes. To allocate huge pages of a specific size, precede the huge pages boot command parameters with a huge page size selection parameter hugepagesz=<size>. The <size> value must be specified in bytes with an optional scale suffix [kKmMgG]. The default huge page size can be defined with the default_hugepagesz=<size> boot parameter.

Huge page requirements

Huge page requests must equal the limits. This is the default if limits are
specified, but requests are not.

Huge pages are isolated at a pod scope. Container isolation is planned in a
future iteration.

EmptyDir volumes backed by huge pages must not consume more huge page memory
than the pod request.

Applications that consume huge pages via shmget() with SHM_HUGETLB must run
with a supplemental group that matches proc/sys/vm/hugetlb_shm_group.
Configuring huge pages at boot time
Nodes must pre-allocate huge pages used in an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. There are two ways of reserving huge pages: at boot time and at run time. Reserving at boot time increases the possibility of success because the memory has not yet been significantly fragmented. The Node Tuning Operator currently supports boot time allocation of huge pages on specific nodes.

To minimize node reboots, the order of the steps below needs to be followed:

Label all nodes that need the same huge pages setting by a label.

Create a file with the following content and name it hugepages-tuned-boottime.yaml:

Create the Tuned hugepages object

Create a file with the following content and name it hugepages-mcp.yaml:

Create the machine config pool:


Given enough non-fragmented memory, all the nodes in the worker-hp machine config pool should now have 50 2Mi huge pages allocated.

$ oc get node <node_using_hugepages> -o jsonpath="{.status.allocatable.hugepages-2Mi}"
100Mi
The TuneD bootloader plugin only supports Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) worker nodes.
Understanding device plugins
The device plugin provides a consistent and portable solution to consume hardware devices across clusters. The device plugin provides support for these devices through an extension mechanism, which makes these devices available to Containers, provides health checks of these devices, and securely shares them.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports the device plugin API, but the device plugin Containers are supported by individual vendors.
A device plugin is a gRPC service running on the nodes (external to the kubelet) that is responsible for managing specific hardware resources. Any device plugin must support following remote procedure calls (RPCs):

service DevicePlugin {
      // GetDevicePluginOptions returns options to be communicated with Device
      // Manager
      rpc GetDevicePluginOptions(Empty) returns (DevicePluginOptions) {}

      // ListAndWatch returns a stream of List of Devices
      // Whenever a Device state change or a Device disappears, ListAndWatch
      // returns the new list
      rpc ListAndWatch(Empty) returns (stream ListAndWatchResponse) {}

      // Allocate is called during container creation so that the Device
      // Plug-in can run device specific operations and instruct Kubelet
      // of the steps to make the Device available in the container
      rpc Allocate(AllocateRequest) returns (AllocateResponse) {}

      // PreStartcontainer is called, if indicated by Device Plug-in during
      // registration phase, before each container start. Device plug-in
      // can run device specific operations such as resetting the device
      // before making devices available to the container
      rpc PreStartcontainer(PreStartcontainerRequest) returns (PreStartcontainerResponse) {}
}

Nvidia GPU device plugin for COS-based operating system

Nvidia official GPU device plugin

Solarflare device plugin

KubeVirt device plugins: vfio and kvm

Kubernetes device plugin for IBM&#174; Crypto Express (CEX) cards


For easy device plugin reference implementation, there is a stub device plugin in the Device Manager code: vendor/k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/kubelet/cm/deviceplugin/device_plugin_stub.go.
Methods for deploying a device plugin
Daemon sets are the recommended approach for device plugin deployments.

Upon start, the device plugin will try to create a UNIX domain socket at
/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugin/ on the node to serve RPCs from Device Manager.

Since device plugins must manage hardware resources, access to the host
file system, as well as socket creation, they must be run in a privileged
security context.

More specific details regarding deployment steps can be found with each device
plugin implementation.
Understanding the Device Manager
Device Manager provides a mechanism for advertising specialized node hardware resources with the help of plugins known as device plugins.

You can advertise specialized hardware without requiring any upstream code changes.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports the device plugin API, but the device plugin Containers are supported by individual vendors.
Device Manager advertises devices as Extended Resources. User pods can consume devices, advertised by Device Manager, using the same Limit/Request mechanism, which is used for requesting any other Extended Resource.

Upon start, the device plugin registers itself with Device Manager invoking Register on the /var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock and starts a gRPC service at /var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/<plugin>.sock for serving Device Manager requests.

Device Manager, while processing a new registration request, invokes ListAndWatch remote procedure call (RPC) at the device plugin service. In response, Device Manager gets a list of Device objects from the plugin over a gRPC stream. Device Manager will keep watching on the stream for new updates from the plugin. On the plugin side, the plugin will also keep the stream open and whenever there is a change in the state of any of the devices, a new device list is sent to the Device Manager over the same streaming connection.

While handling a new pod admission request, Kubelet passes requested Extended Resources to the Device Manager for device allocation. Device Manager checks in its database to verify if a corresponding plugin exists or not. If the plugin exists and there are free allocatable devices as well as per local cache, Allocate RPC is invoked at that particular device plugin.

Additionally, device plugins can also perform several other device-specific operations, such as driver installation, device initialization, and device resets. These functionalities vary from implementation to implementation.
Enabling Device Manager
Enable Device Manager to implement a device plugin to advertise specialized hardware without any upstream code changes.

Device Manager provides a mechanism for advertising specialized node hardware resources with the help of plugins known as device plugins.

Obtain the label associated with the static MachineConfigPool CRD for the type of node you want to configure by entering the following command.
Perform one of the following steps:


Create a custom resource (CR) for your configuration change.

Create the Device Manager:

Ensure that Device Manager was actually enabled by confirming that
/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock is created on the node. This is
the UNIX domain socket on which the Device Manager gRPC server listens for new
plugin registrations. This sock file is created when the Kubelet is started
only if Device Manager is enabled.
Taints and tolerations
Understand and work with taints and tolerations.

Understanding taints and tolerations
A taint allows a node to refuse a pod to be scheduled unless that pod has a matching toleration.

You apply taints to a node through the Node specification (NodeSpec) and apply tolerations to a pod through the Pod specification (PodSpec). When you apply a taint a node, the scheduler cannot place a pod on that node unless the pod can tolerate the taint.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Node
metadata:
  name: my-node
#...
spec:
  taints:
  - effect: NoExecute
    key: key1
    value: value1
#...
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
#...
spec:
  tolerations:
  - key: "key1"
    operator: "Equal"
    value: "value1"
    effect: "NoExecute"
    tolerationSeconds: 3600
#...
Taints and tolerations consist of a key, value, and effect.


If you add a NoSchedule taint to a control plane node, the node must have the node-role.kubernetes.io/master=:NoSchedule taint, which is added by default.
A toleration matches a taint:

If the operator parameter is set to Equal:

If the operator parameter is set to Exists:


The following taints are built into "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform":

node.kubernetes.io/not-ready: The node is not ready. This corresponds to the node condition Ready=False.

node.kubernetes.io/unreachable: The node is unreachable from the node controller. This corresponds to the node condition Ready=Unknown.

node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure: The node has memory pressure issues. This corresponds to the node condition MemoryPressure=True.

node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure: The node has disk pressure issues. This corresponds to the node condition DiskPressure=True.

node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable: The node network is unavailable.

node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable: The node is unschedulable.

node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized: When the node controller is started with an external cloud provider, this taint is set on a node to mark it as unusable. After a controller from the cloud-controller-manager initializes this node, the kubelet removes this taint.

node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure: The node has pid pressure. This corresponds to the node condition PIDPressure=True.
Adding taints and tolerations
You add tolerations to pods and taints to nodes to allow the node to control which pods should or should not be scheduled on them. For existing pods and nodes, you should add the toleration to the pod first, then add the taint to the node to avoid pods being removed from the node before you can add the toleration.

Add a toleration to a pod by editing the Pod spec to include a tolerations stanza:

Add a taint to a node by using the following command with the parameters described in the Taint and toleration components table:
Adding taints and tolerations using a compute machine set
You can add taints to nodes using a compute machine set. All nodes associated with the MachineSet object are updated with the taint. Tolerations respond to taints added by a compute machine set in the same manner as taints added directly to the nodes.

Add a toleration to a pod by editing the Pod spec to include a tolerations stanza:

Add the taint to the MachineSet object:
Binding a user to a node using taints and tolerations
If you want to dedicate a set of nodes for exclusive use by a particular set of users, add a toleration to their pods. Then, add a corresponding taint to those nodes.  The pods with the tolerations are allowed to use the tainted nodes or any other nodes in the cluster.

If you want ensure the pods are scheduled to only those tainted nodes, also add a label to the same set of nodes and add a node affinity to the pods so that the pods can only be scheduled onto nodes with that label.

To configure a node so that users can use only that node:

Add a corresponding taint to those nodes:

Add a toleration to the pods by writing a custom admission controller.
Controlling nodes with special hardware using taints and tolerations
In a cluster where a small subset of nodes have specialized hardware, you can use taints and tolerations to keep pods that do not need the specialized hardware off of those nodes, leaving the nodes for pods that do need the specialized hardware. You can also require pods that need specialized hardware to use specific nodes.

You can achieve this by adding a toleration to pods that need the special hardware and tainting the nodes that have the specialized hardware.

To ensure nodes with specialized hardware are reserved for specific pods:

Add a toleration to pods that need the special hardware.

Taint the nodes that have the specialized hardware using one of the following commands:
Removing taints and tolerations
You can remove taints from nodes and tolerations from pods as needed. You should add the toleration to the pod first, then add the taint to the node to avoid pods being removed from the node before you can add the toleration.

To remove taints and tolerations:

To remove a taint from a node:

To remove a toleration from a pod, edit the Pod spec to remove the toleration:
Topology Manager
Understand and work with Topology Manager.

Topology Manager policies
Topology Manager aligns Pod resources of all Quality of Service (QoS) classes by collecting topology hints from Hint Providers, such as CPU Manager and Device Manager, and using the collected hints to align the Pod resources.

Topology Manager supports four allocation policies, which you assign in the KubeletConfig custom resource (CR) named cpumanager-enabled:


none policy
This is the default policy and does not perform any topology alignment.
best-effort policy
For each container in a pod with the best-effort topology management policy, kubelet calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource
availability. Using this information, the Topology Manager stores the preferred NUMA Node affinity for that container. If the affinity is not preferred, Topology Manager stores this and admits the pod to the node.
restricted policy
For each container in a pod with the restricted topology management policy, kubelet calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource
availability. Using this information, the Topology Manager stores the preferred NUMA Node affinity for that container. If the affinity is not
preferred, Topology Manager rejects this pod from the node, resulting in a pod in a Terminated state with a pod admission failure.
single-numa-node policy
For each container in a pod with the single-numa-node topology management policy, kubelet calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource availability. Using this information, the Topology Manager determines if a single NUMA Node affinity is possible. If it is, the pod is admitted to the node. If a single NUMA Node affinity is not possible, the Topology Manager rejects the pod from the node. This results in a pod in a Terminated state with a pod admission failure.
Setting up Topology Manager
To use Topology Manager, you must configure an allocation policy in the KubeletConfig custom resource (CR) named cpumanager-enabled. This file might exist if you have set up CPU Manager. If the file does not exist, you can create the file.

Configure the CPU Manager policy to be static.


To activate Topololgy Manager:

Configure the Topology Manager allocation policy in the custom resource.
Pod interactions with Topology Manager policies
The example Pod specs below help illustrate pod interactions with Topology Manager.

The following pod runs in the BestEffort QoS class because no resource requests or limits are specified.

spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
The next pod runs in the Burstable QoS class because requests are less than limits.

spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"
      requests:
        memory: "100Mi"
If the selected policy is anything other than none, Topology Manager would not consider either of these Pod specifications.

The last example pod below runs in the Guaranteed QoS class because requests are equal to limits.

spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"
        cpu: "2"
        example.com/device: "1"
      requests:
        memory: "200Mi"
        cpu: "2"
        example.com/device: "1"
Topology Manager would consider this pod. The Topology Manager would consult the hint providers, which are CPU Manager and Device Manager, to get topology hints for the pod.

Topology Manager will use this information to store the best topology for this container. In the case of this pod, CPU Manager and Device Manager will use this stored information at the resource allocation stage.
Resource requests and overcommitment
For each compute resource, a container may specify a resource request and limit. Scheduling decisions are made based on the request to ensure that a node has enough capacity available to meet the requested value. If a container specifies limits, but omits requests, the requests are defaulted to the limits. A container is not able to exceed the specified limit on the node.

The enforcement of limits is dependent upon the compute resource type. If a container makes no request or limit, the container is scheduled to a node with no resource guarantees. In practice, the container is able to consume as much of the specified resource as is available with the lowest local priority. In low resource situations, containers that specify no resource requests are given the lowest quality of service.

Scheduling is based on resources requested, while quota and hard limits refer to resource limits, which can be set higher than requested resources. The difference between request and limit determines the level of overcommit; for instance, if a container is given a memory request of 1Gi and a memory limit of 2Gi, it is scheduled based on the 1Gi request being available on the node, but could use up to 2Gi; so it is 200% overcommitted.
Cluster-level overcommit using the Cluster Resource Override Operator
The Cluster Resource Override Operator is an admission webhook that allows you to control the level of overcommit and manage container density across all the nodes in your cluster. The Operator controls how nodes in specific projects can exceed defined memory and CPU limits.

You must install the Cluster Resource Override Operator using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" console or CLI as shown in the following sections. During the installation, you create a ClusterResourceOverride custom resource (CR), where you set the level of overcommit, as shown in the following example:

apiVersion: operator.autoscaling.openshift.io/v1
kind: ClusterResourceOverride
metadata:
    name: cluster 1
spec:
  podResourceOverride:
    spec:
      memoryRequestToLimitPercent: 50 2
      cpuRequestToLimitPercent: 25 3
      limitCPUToMemoryPercent: 200 4
# ...
The name must be cluster.

Optional. If a container memory limit has been specified or defaulted, the memory request is overridden to this percentage of the limit, between 1-100. The default is 50.

Optional. If a container CPU limit has been specified or defaulted, the CPU request is overridden to this percentage of the limit, between 1-100. The default is 25.

Optional. If a container memory limit has been specified or defaulted, the CPU limit is overridden to a percentage of the memory limit, if specified. Scaling 1Gi of RAM at 100 percent is equal to 1 CPU core. This is processed prior to overriding the CPU request (if configured). The default is 200.


The Cluster Resource Override Operator overrides have no effect if limits have not been set on containers. Create a LimitRange object with default limits per individual project or configure limits in Pod specs for the overrides to apply.
When configured, overrides can be enabled per-project by applying the following label to the Namespace object for each project:

apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:

# ...

  labels:
    clusterresourceoverrides.admission.autoscaling.openshift.io/enabled: "true"

# ...
The Operator watches for the ClusterResourceOverride CR and ensures that the ClusterResourceOverride admission webhook is installed into the same namespace as the operator.

Installing the Cluster Resource Override Operator using the web console
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console to install the Cluster Resource Override Operator to help control overcommit in your cluster.

The Cluster Resource Override Operator has no effect if limits have not
been set on containers. You must specify default limits for a project using a LimitRange object or configure limits in Pod specs for the overrides to apply.


To install the Cluster Resource Override Operator using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console:

In the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console, navigate to Home -> Projects

Navigate to Operators -> OperatorHub.

On the Installed Operators page, click ClusterResourceOverride.

Check the current state of the admission webhook by checking the status of the cluster custom resource:
Installing the Cluster Resource Override Operator using the CLI
You can use the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" CLI to install the Cluster Resource Override Operator to help control overcommit in your cluster.

The Cluster Resource Override Operator has no effect if limits have not been set on containers. You must specify default limits for a project using a LimitRange object or configure limits in Pod specs for the overrides to apply.


To install the Cluster Resource Override Operator using the CLI:

Create a namespace for the Cluster Resource Override Operator:

Create an Operator group:

Create a subscription:

Create a ClusterResourceOverride custom resource (CR) object in the clusterresourceoverride-operator namespace:

Verify the current state of the admission webhook by checking the status of the cluster custom resource.
Configuring cluster-level overcommit
The Cluster Resource Override Operator requires a ClusterResourceOverride custom resource (CR) and a label for each project where you want the Operator to control overcommit.

The Cluster Resource Override Operator has no effect if limits have not
been set on containers. You must specify default limits for a project using a LimitRange object or configure limits in Pod specs for the overrides to apply.


To modify cluster-level overcommit:

Edit the ClusterResourceOverride CR:

Ensure the following label has been added to the Namespace object for each project where you want the Cluster Resource Override Operator to control overcommit:
Node-level overcommit
You can use various ways to control overcommit on specific nodes, such as quality of service (QOS) guarantees, CPU limits, or reserve resources. You can also disable overcommit for specific nodes and specific projects.

Understanding compute resources and containers
The node-enforced behavior for compute resources is specific to the resource type.

Understanding container CPU requests
A container is guaranteed the amount of CPU it requests and is additionally able to consume excess CPU available on the node, up to any limit specified by the container. If multiple containers are attempting to use excess CPU, CPU time is distributed based on the amount of CPU requested by each container.

For example, if one container requested 500m of CPU time and another container requested 250m of CPU time, then any extra CPU time available on the node is distributed among the containers in a 2:1 ratio. If a container specified a limit, it will be throttled not to use more CPU than the specified limit. CPU requests are enforced using the CFS shares support in the Linux kernel. By default, CPU limits are enforced using the CFS quota support in the Linux kernel over a 100ms measuring interval, though this can be disabled.
Understanding container memory requests
A container is guaranteed the amount of memory it requests. A container can use more memory than requested, but once it exceeds its requested amount, it could be terminated in a low memory situation on the node. If a container uses less memory than requested, it will not be terminated unless system tasks or daemons need more memory than was accounted for in the node's resource reservation. If a container specifies a limit on memory, it is immediately terminated if it exceeds the limit amount.
Understanding overcomitment and quality of service classes
A node is overcommitted when it has a pod scheduled that makes no request, or when the sum of limits across all pods on that node exceeds available machine capacity.

In an overcommitted environment, it is possible that the pods on the node will attempt to use more compute resource than is available at any given point in time. When this occurs, the node must give priority to one pod over another. The facility used to make this decision is referred to as a Quality of Service (QoS) Class.

A pod is designated as one of three QoS classes with decreasing order of priority:


Memory is an incompressible resource, so in low memory situations, containers that have the lowest priority are terminated first:

Guaranteed containers are considered top priority, and are guaranteed to
only be terminated if they exceed their limits, or if the system is under memory
pressure and there are no lower priority containers that can be evicted.

Burstable containers under system memory pressure are more likely to be
terminated once they exceed their requests and no other BestEffort containers
exist.

BestEffort containers are treated with the lowest priority. Processes in
these containers are first to be terminated if the system runs out of memory.


Understanding how to reserve memory across quality of service tiers
You can use the qos-reserved parameter to specify a percentage of memory to be reserved by a pod in a particular QoS level. This feature attempts to reserve requested resources to exclude pods from lower OoS classes from using resources requested by pods in higher QoS classes.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" uses the qos-reserved parameter as follows:

A value of qos-reserved=memory=100% will prevent the Burstable and BestEffort QoS classes from consuming memory
that was requested by a higher QoS class. This increases the risk of inducing OOM
on BestEffort and Burstable workloads in favor of increasing memory resource guarantees
for Guaranteed and Burstable workloads.

A value of qos-reserved=memory=50% will allow the Burstable and BestEffort QoS classes
to consume half of the memory requested by a higher QoS class.

A value of qos-reserved=memory=0%
will allow a Burstable and BestEffort QoS classes to consume up to the full node
allocatable amount if available, but increases the risk that a Guaranteed workload
will not have access to requested memory. This condition effectively disables this feature.
Understanding swap memory and QOS
You can disable swap by default on your nodes to preserve quality of service (QOS) guarantees. Otherwise, physical resources on a node can oversubscribe, affecting the resource guarantees the Kubernetes scheduler makes during pod placement.

For example, if two guaranteed pods have reached their memory limit, each container could start using swap memory. Eventually, if there is not enough swap space, processes in the pods can be terminated due to the system being oversubscribed.

Failing to disable swap results in nodes not recognizing that they are experiencing MemoryPressure, resulting in pods not receiving the memory they made in their scheduling request. As a result, additional pods are placed on the node to further increase memory pressure, ultimately increasing your risk of experiencing a system out of memory (OOM) event.

If swap is enabled, any out-of-resource handling eviction thresholds for available memory will not work as expected. Take advantage of out-of-resource handling to allow pods to be evicted from a node when it is under memory pressure, and rescheduled on an alternative node that has no such pressure.
Understanding nodes overcommitment
In an overcommitted environment, it is important to properly configure your node to provide best system behavior.

When the node starts, it ensures that the kernel tunable flags for memory management are set properly. The kernel should never fail memory allocations unless it runs out of physical memory.

To ensure this behavior, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" configures the kernel to always overcommit memory by setting the vm.overcommit_memory parameter to 1, overriding the default operating system setting.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" also configures the kernel not to panic when it runs out of memory by setting the vm.panic_on_oom parameter to 0. A setting of 0 instructs the kernel to call oom_killer in an Out of Memory (OOM) condition, which kills processes based on priority

You can view the current setting by running the following commands on your nodes:

$ sysctl -a |grep commit
#...
vm.overcommit_memory = 0
#...
$ sysctl -a |grep panic
#...
vm.panic_on_oom = 0
#...
The above flags should already be set on nodes, and no further action is required.
You can also perform the following configurations for each node:

Disable or enforce CPU limits using CPU CFS quotas

Reserve resources for system processes

Reserve memory across quality of service tiers
Disabling or enforcing CPU limits using CPU CFS quotas
Nodes by default enforce specified CPU limits using the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) quota support in the Linux kernel.

If you disable CPU limit enforcement, it is important to understand the impact on your node:

If a container has a CPU request, the request continues to be enforced by CFS shares in the Linux kernel.

If a container does not have a CPU request, but does have a CPU limit, the CPU request defaults to the specified CPU limit, and is enforced by CFS shares in the Linux kernel.

If a container has both a CPU request and limit, the CPU request is enforced by CFS shares in the Linux kernel, and the CPU limit has no impact on the node.


Obtain the label associated with the static MachineConfigPool CRD for the type of node you want to configure by entering the following command:


Create a custom resource (CR) for your configuration change.

Run the following command to create the CR:
Reserving resources for system processes
To provide more reliable scheduling and minimize node resource overcommitment, each node can reserve a portion of its resources for use by system daemons that are required to run on your node for your cluster to function. In particular, it is recommended that you reserve resources for incompressible resources such as memory.

To explicitly reserve resources for non-pod processes, allocate node resources by specifying resources available for scheduling. For more details, see Allocating Resources for Nodes.
Disabling overcommitment for a node
When enabled, overcommitment can be disabled on each node.

To disable overcommitment in a node run the following command on that node:

$ sysctl -w vm.overcommit_memory=0
Project-level limits
To help control overcommit, you can set per-project resource limit ranges, specifying memory and CPU limits and defaults for a project that overcommit cannot exceed.

For information on project-level resource limits, see Additional resources.

Alternatively, you can disable overcommitment for specific projects.

Disabling overcommitment for a project
When enabled, overcommitment can be disabled per-project. For example, you can allow infrastructure components to be configured independently of overcommitment.

To disable overcommitment in a project:

Create or edit the namespace object file.

Add the following annotation:
Freeing node resources using garbage collection
Understand and use garbage collection.

Understanding how terminated containers are removed through garbage collection
Container garbage collection removes terminated containers by using eviction thresholds.

When eviction thresholds are set for garbage collection, the node tries to keep any container for any pod accessible from the API. If the pod has been deleted, the containers will be as well. Containers are preserved as long the pod is not deleted and the eviction threshold is not reached. If the node is under disk pressure, it will remove containers and their logs will no longer be accessible using oc logs.

eviction-soft - A soft eviction threshold pairs an eviction threshold with a required administrator-specified grace period.

eviction-hard - A hard eviction threshold has no grace period, and if observed, "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" takes immediate action.


The following table lists the eviction thresholds:


For evictionHard you must specify all of these parameters.  If you do not specify all parameters, only the specified parameters are applied and the garbage collection will not function properly.
If a node is oscillating above and below a soft eviction threshold, but not exceeding its associated grace period, the corresponding node would constantly oscillate between true and false. As a consequence, the scheduler could make poor scheduling decisions.

To protect against this oscillation, use the eviction-pressure-transition-period flag to control how long "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" must wait before transitioning out of a pressure condition. "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" will not set an eviction threshold as being met for the specified pressure condition for the period specified before toggling the condition back to false.
Understanding how images are removed through garbage collection
Image garbage collection removes images that are not referenced by any running pods.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" determines which images to remove from a node based on the disk usage that is reported by cAdvisor.

The policy for image garbage collection is based on two conditions:

The percent of disk usage (expressed as an integer) which triggers image
garbage collection. The default is 85.

The percent of disk usage (expressed as an integer) to which image garbage
collection attempts to free. Default is 80.


For image garbage collection, you can modify any of the following variables using a custom resource.


Two lists of images are retrieved in each garbage collector run:

A list of images currently running in at least one pod.

A list of images available on a host.


As new containers are run, new images appear. All images are marked with a time stamp. If the image is running (the first list above) or is newly detected (the second list above), it is marked with the current time. The remaining images are already marked from the previous spins. All images are then sorted by the time stamp.

Once the collection starts, the oldest images get deleted first until the stopping criterion is met.
Configuring garbage collection for containers and images
As an administrator, you can configure how "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" performs garbage collection by creating a kubeletConfig object for each machine config pool.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" supports only one kubeletConfig object for each machine config pool.
You can configure any combination of the following:

Soft eviction for containers

Hard eviction for containers

Eviction for images


Container garbage collection removes terminated containers. Image garbage collection removes images that are not referenced by any running pods.

Obtain the label associated with the static MachineConfigPool CRD for the type of node you want to configure by entering the following command:


Create a custom resource (CR) for your configuration change.

Run the following command to create the CR:


Verify that garbage collection is active by entering the following command. The Machine Config Pool you specified in the custom resource appears with UPDATING as 'true` until the change is fully implemented:
Using the Node Tuning Operator
Understand and use the Node Tuning Operator.


The Node Tuning Operator helps you manage node-level tuning by orchestrating the TuneD daemon and achieves low latency performance by using the Performance Profile controller. The majority of high-performance applications require some level of kernel tuning. The Node Tuning Operator provides a unified management interface to users of node-level sysctls and more flexibility to add custom tuning specified by user needs.

The Operator manages the containerized TuneD daemon for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" as a Kubernetes daemon set. It ensures the custom tuning specification is passed to all containerized TuneD daemons running in the cluster in the format that the daemons understand. The daemons run on all nodes in the cluster, one per node.

Node-level settings applied by the containerized TuneD daemon are rolled back on an event that triggers a profile change or when the containerized TuneD daemon is terminated gracefully by receiving and handling a termination signal.

The Node Tuning Operator uses the Performance Profile controller to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" applications.

The cluster administrator configures a performance profile to define node-level settings such as the following:

Updating the kernel to kernel-rt.

Choosing CPUs for housekeeping.

Choosing CPUs for running workloads.


Currently, disabling CPU load balancing is not supported by cgroup v2. As a result, you might not get the desired behavior from performance profiles if you have cgroup v2 enabled. Enabling cgroup v2 is not recommended if you are using performance profiles.
The Node Tuning Operator is part of a standard "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" installation in version 4.1 and later.

In earlier versions of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", the Performance Addon Operator was used to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance for OpenShift applications. In "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.11 and later, this functionality is part of the Node Tuning Operator.
Accessing an example Node Tuning Operator specification
Use this process to access an example Node Tuning Operator specification.

Run the following command to access an example Node Tuning Operator specification:


The default CR is meant for delivering standard node-level tuning for the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" platform and it can only be modified to set the Operator Management state. Any other custom changes to the default CR will be overwritten by the Operator. For custom tuning, create your own Tuned CRs. Newly created CRs will be combined with the default CR and custom tuning applied to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes based on node or pod labels and profile priorities.

While in certain situations the support for pod labels can be a convenient way of automatically delivering required tuning, this practice is discouraged and strongly advised against, especially in large-scale clusters. The default Tuned CR ships without pod label matching. If a custom profile is created with pod label matching, then the functionality will be enabled at that time. The pod label functionality will be deprecated in future versions of the Node Tuning Operator.
Custom tuning specification
The custom resource (CR) for the Operator has two major sections. The first section, profile:, is a list of TuneD profiles and their names. The second, recommend:, defines the profile selection logic.

Multiple custom tuning specifications can co-exist as multiple CRs in the Operator's namespace. The existence of new CRs or the deletion of old CRs is detected by the Operator. All existing custom tuning specifications are merged and appropriate objects for the containerized TuneD daemons are updated.

Management state

The Operator Management state is set by adjusting the default Tuned CR. By default, the Operator is in the Managed state and the spec.managementState field is not present in the default Tuned CR. Valid values for the Operator Management state are as follows:

Managed: the Operator will update its operands as configuration resources are updated

Unmanaged: the Operator will ignore changes to the configuration resources

Removed: the Operator will remove its operands and resources the Operator provisioned


Profile data

The profile: section lists TuneD profiles and their names.

profile:
- name: tuned_profile_1
  data: |
    # TuneD profile specification
    [main]
    summary=Description of tuned_profile_1 profile

    [sysctl]
    net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
    # ... other sysctl's or other TuneD daemon plugins supported by the containerized TuneD

# ...

- name: tuned_profile_n
  data: |
    # TuneD profile specification
    [main]
    summary=Description of tuned_profile_n profile

    # tuned_profile_n profile settings
Recommended profiles

The profile: selection logic is defined by the recommend: section of the CR. The recommend: section is a list of items to recommend the profiles based on a selection criteria.

recommend:
<recommend-item-1>
# ...
<recommend-item-n>
The individual items of the list:

- machineConfigLabels: 1
    <mcLabels> 2
  match: 3
    <match> 4
  priority: <priority> 5
  profile: <tuned_profile_name> 6
  operand: 7
    debug: <bool> 8
    tunedConfig:
      reapply_sysctl: <bool> 9
Optional.

A dictionary of key/value MachineConfig labels. The keys must be unique.

If omitted, profile match is assumed unless a profile with a higher priority matches first or machineConfigLabels is set.

An optional list.

Profile ordering priority. Lower numbers mean higher priority (0 is the highest priority).

A TuneD profile to apply on a match. For example tuned_profile_1.

Optional operand configuration.

Turn debugging on or off for the TuneD daemon. Options are true for on or false for off. The default is false.

Turn reapply_sysctl functionality on or off for the TuneD daemon. Options are true for on and false for off.


<match> is an optional list recursively defined as follows:

- label: <label_name> 1
  value: <label_value> 2
  type: <label_type> 3
    <match> 4
Node or pod label name.

Optional node or pod label value. If omitted, the presence of <label_name> is enough to match.

Optional object type (node or pod). If omitted, node is assumed.

An optional <match> list.


If <match> is not omitted, all nested <match> sections must also evaluate to true. Otherwise, false is assumed and the profile with the respective <match> section will not be applied or recommended. Therefore, the nesting (child <match> sections) works as logical AND operator. Conversely, if any item of the <match> list matches, the entire <match> list evaluates to true. Therefore, the list acts as logical OR operator.

If machineConfigLabels is defined, machine config pool based matching is turned on for the given recommend: list item. <mcLabels> specifies the labels for a machine config. The machine config is created automatically to apply host settings, such as kernel boot parameters, for the profile <tuned_profile_name>. This involves finding all machine config pools with machine config selector matching <mcLabels> and setting the profile <tuned_profile_name> on all nodes that are assigned the found machine config pools. To target nodes that have both master and worker roles, you must use the master role.

The list items match and machineConfigLabels are connected by the logical OR operator. The match item is evaluated first in a short-circuit manner. Therefore, if it evaluates to true, the machineConfigLabels item is not considered.

When using machine config pool based matching, it is advised to group nodes with the same hardware configuration into the same machine config pool. Not following this practice might result in TuneD operands calculating conflicting kernel parameters for two or more nodes sharing the same machine config pool.
- match:
  - label: tuned.openshift.io/elasticsearch
    match:
    - label: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
    - label: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
    type: pod
  priority: 10
  profile: openshift-control-plane-es
- match:
  - label: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
  - label: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
  priority: 20
  profile: openshift-control-plane
- priority: 30
  profile: openshift-node
The CR above is translated for the containerized TuneD daemon into its recommend.conf file based on the profile priorities. The profile with the highest priority (10) is openshift-control-plane-es and, therefore, it is considered first. The containerized TuneD daemon running on a given node looks to see if there is a pod running on the same node with the tuned.openshift.io/elasticsearch label set. If not, the entire <match> section evaluates as false. If there is such a pod with the label, in order for the <match> section to evaluate to true, the node label also needs to be node-role.kubernetes.io/master or node-role.kubernetes.io/infra.

If the labels for the profile with priority 10 matched, openshift-control-plane-es profile is applied and no other profile is considered. If the node/pod label combination did not match, the second highest priority profile (openshift-control-plane) is considered. This profile is applied if the containerized TuneD pod runs on a node with labels node-role.kubernetes.io/master or node-role.kubernetes.io/infra.

Finally, the profile openshift-node has the lowest priority of 30. It lacks the <match> section and, therefore, will always match. It acts as a profile catch-all to set openshift-node profile, if no other profile with higher priority matches on a given node.


apiVersion: tuned.openshift.io/v1
kind: Tuned
metadata:
  name: openshift-node-custom
  namespace: openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
spec:
  profile:
  - data: |
      [main]
      summary=Custom OpenShift node profile with an additional kernel parameter
      include=openshift-node
      [bootloader]
      cmdline_openshift_node_custom=+skew_tick=1
    name: openshift-node-custom

  recommend:
  - machineConfigLabels:
      machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: "worker-custom"
    priority: 20
    profile: openshift-node-custom
To minimize node reboots, label the target nodes with a label the machine config pool's node selector will match, then create the Tuned CR above and finally create the custom machine config pool itself.

Cloud provider-specific TuneD profiles

With this functionality, all Cloud provider-specific nodes can conveniently be assigned a TuneD profile specifically tailored to a given Cloud provider on a "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. This can be accomplished without adding additional node labels or grouping nodes into machine config pools.

This functionality takes advantage of spec.providerID node object values in the form of <cloud-provider>://<cloud-provider-specific-id> and writes the file /var/lib/tuned/provider with the value <cloud-provider> in NTO operand containers.  The content of this file is then used by TuneD to load provider-<cloud-provider> profile if such profile exists.

The openshift profile that both openshift-control-plane and openshift-node profiles inherit settings from is now updated to use this functionality through the use of conditional profile loading. Neither NTO nor TuneD currently include any Cloud provider-specific profiles. However, it is possible to create a custom profile provider-<cloud-provider> that will be applied to all Cloud provider-specific cluster nodes.

apiVersion: tuned.openshift.io/v1
kind: Tuned
metadata:
  name: provider-gce
  namespace: openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
spec:
  profile:
  - data: |
      [main]
      summary=GCE Cloud provider-specific profile
      # Your tuning for GCE Cloud provider goes here.
    name: provider-gce
Due to profile inheritance, any setting specified in the provider-<cloud-provider> profile will be overwritten by the openshift profile and its child profiles.
Default profiles set on a cluster
The following are the default profiles set on a cluster.

apiVersion: tuned.openshift.io/v1
kind: Tuned
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
spec:
  profile:
  - data: |
      [main]
      summary=Optimize systems running OpenShift (provider specific parent profile)
      include=-provider-${f:exec:cat:/var/lib/tuned/provider},openshift
    name: openshift
  recommend:
  - profile: openshift-control-plane
    priority: 30
    match:
    - label: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
    - label: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
  - profile: openshift-node
    priority: 40
Starting with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.9, all OpenShift TuneD profiles are shipped with the TuneD package. You can use the oc exec command to view the contents of these profiles:

$ oc exec $tuned_pod -n openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator -- find /usr/lib/tuned/openshift{,-control-plane,-node} -name tuned.conf -exec grep -H ^ {} \;
Supported TuneD daemon plugins
Excluding the [main] section, the following TuneD plugins are supported when using custom profiles defined in the profile: section of the Tuned CR:

audio

cpu

disk

eeepc_she

modules

mounts

net

scheduler

scsi_host

selinux

sysctl

sysfs

usb

video

vm

bootloader


There is some dynamic tuning functionality provided by some of these plugins that is not supported. The following TuneD plugins are currently not supported:

script

systemd


The TuneD bootloader plugin only supports Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) worker nodes.
Available TuneD Plugins

Getting Started with TuneD
Configuring the maximum number of pods per node
Two parameters control the maximum number of pods that can be scheduled to a node: podsPerCore and maxPods. If you use both options, the lower of the two limits the number of pods on a node.

For example, if podsPerCore is set to 10 on a node with 4 processor cores, the maximum number of pods allowed on the node will be 40.

Obtain the label associated with the static MachineConfigPool CRD for the type of node you want to configure by entering the following command:


Create a custom resource (CR) for your configuration change.

Run the following command to create the CR:


List the MachineConfigPool CRDs to see if the change is applied. The UPDATING column reports True if the change is picked up by the Machine Config Controller:
Machine scaling with static IP addresses
After you deployed your cluster to run nodes with static IP addresses, you can scale an instance of a machine or a machine set to use one of these static IP addresses.

Static IP addresses for vSphere nodes


Scaling machines to use static IP addresses
You can scale additional machine sets to use pre-defined static IP addresses on your cluster. For this configuration, you need to create a machine resource YAML file and then define static IP addresses in this file.

Static IP addresses for vSphere nodes is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You included featureSet:TechPreviewNoUpgrade as the initial entry in the install-config.yaml file.

You deployed a cluster that runs at least one node with a configured static IP address.


Create a machine resource YAML file and define static IP address network information in the network parameter.
Machine set scaling of machines with configured static IP addresses
You can use a machine set to scale machines with configured static IP addresses.

Static IP addresses for vSphere nodes is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
After you configure a machine set to request a static IP address for a machine, the machine controller creates an IPAddressClaim resource in the openshift-machine-api namespace. The external controller then creates an IPAddress resource and binds any static IP addresses to the IPAddressClaim resource.

Your organization might use numerous types of IP address management (IPAM) services. If you want to enable a particular IPAM service on "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", you might need to manually create the IPAddressClaim resource in a YAML definition and then bind a static IP address to this resource by entering the following command in your oc CLI:

$ oc create -f <ipaddressclaim_filename>
The following demonstrates an example of an IPAddressClaim resource:

kind: IPAddressClaim
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - machine.openshift.io/ip-claim-protection
  name: cluster-dev-9n5wg-worker-0-m7529-claim-0-0
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  poolRef:
    apiGroup: ipamcontroller.example.io
    kind: IPPool
    name: static-ci-pool
status: {}
The machine controller updates the machine with a status of IPAddressClaimed to indicate that a static IP address has succesfully bound to the IPAddressClaim resource. The machine controller applies the same status to a machine with multiple IPAddressClaim resources that each contain a bound static IP address.The machine controller then creates a virtual machine and applies static IP addresses to any nodes listed in the providerSpec of a machine's configuration.
Using a machine set to scale machines with configured static IP addresses
You can use a machine set to scale machines with configured static IP addresses.

Static IP addresses for vSphere nodes is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
The example in the procedure demonstrates the use of controllers for scaling machines in a machine set.

You included featureSet:TechPreviewNoUpgrade as the initial entry in the install-config.yaml file.

You deployed a cluster that runs at least one node with a configured static IP address.


Configure a machine set by specifying IP pool information in the network.devices.addressesFromPools schema of the machine set's YAML file:

Scale the machine set by entering the following commands in your oc CLI:

Optional: Check that the IPAddressClaim resource exists in the openshift-machine-api namespace by entering the following command:

Create an IPAddress resource by entering the following command:

Update the IPAddressClaim status with a reference to the IPAddress resource: