Installing the AWS Load Balancer Operator on a cluster using the AWS Security Token Service

You can install the AWS Load Balancer Operator on a cluster that uses STS.

The AWS Load Balancer Operator relies on the CredentialsRequest object to bootstrap the Operator and the AWS Load Balancer Controller. The AWS Load Balancer Operator waits until the required secrets are created and available.
Creating an IAM role for the AWS Load Balancer Operator
An additional AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role is required to successfully install the AWS Load Balancer Operator on a cluster that uses STS. The IAM role is required to interact with subnets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs). The AWS Load Balancer Operator generates the CredentialsRequest object with the IAM role to bootstrap itself.

You can create the IAM role by using the following options:

Using the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) and a predefined CredentialsRequest object.

Using the AWS CLI and predefined AWS manifests.


Use the AWS CLI if your environment does not support the ccoctl command.

Creating an AWS IAM role by using the Cloud Credential Operator utility
You can use the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) to create an AWS IAM role for the AWS Load Balancer Operator. An AWS IAM role is used to interact with subnets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs).

You must extract and prepare the ccoctl binary.


Download the CredentialsRequest custom resource (CR) and store it in a directory by running the following command:

Use the ccoctl utility to create an AWS IAM role by running the following command:
Creating an AWS IAM role by using the Cloud Credential Operator utility
You can use the AWS Command Line Interface to create an IAM role for the AWS Load Balancer Operator. The IAM role is used to interact with subnets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs).

You must have access to the AWS Command Line Interface (aws).


Generate a trust policy file by using your identity provider by running the following command:

Create the IAM role with the generated trust policy by running the following command:

Download the permission policy for the AWS Load Balancer Operator by running the following command:

Attach the permission policy for the AWS Load Balancer Controller to the IAM role by running the following command:
Configuring the ARN role for the AWS Load Balancer Operator
You can configure the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) role for the AWS Load Balancer Operator as an environment variable. You can configure the ARN role by using the CLI.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Create the aws-load-balancer-operator project by running the following command:

Create the OperatorGroup object by running the following command:

Create the Subscription object by running the following command:
Creating an IAM role for the AWS Load Balancer Controller
The CredentialsRequest object for the AWS Load Balancer Controller must be set with a manually provisioned IAM role.

You can create the IAM role by using the following options:

Using the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) and a predefined CredentialsRequest object.

Using the AWS CLI and predefined AWS manifests.


Use the AWS CLI if your environment does not support the ccoctl command.

Creating an AWS IAM role for the controller by using the Cloud Credential Operator utility
You can use the Cloud Credential Operator utility (ccoctl) to create an AWS IAM role for the AWS Load Balancer Controller. An AWS IAM role is used to interact with subnets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs).

You must extract and prepare the ccoctl binary.


Download the CredentialsRequest custom resource (CR) and store it in a directory by running the following command:

Use the ccoctl utility to create an AWS IAM role by running the following command:
Creating an AWS IAM role for the controller by using the AWS CLI
You can use the AWS command line interface to create an AWS IAM role for the AWS Load Balancer Controller. An AWS IAM role is used to interact with subnets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs).

You must have access to the AWS command line interface (aws).


Generate a trust policy file using your identity provider by running the following command:

Create an AWS IAM role with the generated trust policy by running the following command:

Download the permission policy for the AWS Load Balancer Controller by running the following command:

Attach the permission policy for the AWS Load Balancer Controller to an AWS IAM role by running the following command:

Create a YAML file that defines the AWSLoadBalancerController object:
Additional resources
Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility