Logging 5.9

Logging is provided as an installable component, with a distinct release cycle from the core "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy outlines release compatibility.
The stable channel only provides updates to the most recent release of logging. To continue receiving updates for prior releases, you must change your subscription channel to stable-x.y, where x.y represents the major and minor version of logging you have installed. For example, stable-5.7.
Logging 5.9.0
This release includes OpenShift Logging Bug Fix Release 5.9.0

Removal notice
The Logging 5.9 release does not contain an updated version of the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator. Instances of OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator from prior logging releases, remain supported until the EOL of the logging release. As an alternative to using the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator to manage the default log storage, you can use the Loki Operator. For more information on the Logging lifecycle dates, see Platform Agnostic Operators.
Deprecation notice
In Logging 5.9, Fluentd, and Kibana are deprecated and are planned to be removed in Logging 6.0, which is expected to be shipped alongside a future release of "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform". Red Hat will provide critical and above CVE bug fixes and support for these components during the current release lifecycle, but these components will no longer receive feature enhancements. The Vector-based collector provided by the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator and LokiStack provided by the Loki Operator are the preferred Operators for log collection and storage. We encourage all users to adopt the Vector and Loki log stack, as this will be the stack that will be enhanced going forward.

In Logging 5.9, the Fields option for the Splunk output type was never implemented and is now deprecated. It will be removed in a future release.
Enhancements
Log Collection
This enhancement adds the ability to refine the process of log collection by using a workload's metadata to drop or prune logs based on their content. Additionally, it allows the collection of infrastructure logs, such as journal or container logs, and audit logs, such as kube api or ovn logs, to only collect individual sources. (LOG-2155)

This enhancement introduces a new type of remote log receiver, the syslog receiver. You can configure it to expose a port over a network, allowing external systems to send syslog logs using compatible tools such as rsyslog. (LOG-3527)

With this update, the ClusterLogForwarder API now supports log forwarding to Azure Monitor Logs, giving users better monitoring abilities. This feature helps users to maintain optimal system performance and streamline the log analysis processes in Azure Monitor, which speeds up issue resolution and improves operational efficiency. (LOG-4605)

This enhancement improves collector resource utilization by deploying collectors as a deployment with two replicas. This occurs when the only input source defined in the ClusterLogForwarder custom resource (CR) is a receiver input instead of using a daemon set on all nodes. Additionally, collectors deployed in this manner do not mount the host file system. To use this enhancement, you need to annotate the ClusterLogForwarder CR with the logging.openshift.io/dev-preview-enable-collector-as-deployment annotation. (LOG-4779)

This enhancement introduces the capability for custom tenant configuration across all supported outputs, facilitating the organization of log records in a logical manner. However, it does not permit custom tenant configuration for logging managed storage. (LOG-4843)

With this update, the ClusterLogForwarder CR that specifies an application input with one or more infrastructure namespaces like default, openshift*, or kube*, now requires a service account with the collect-infrastructure-logs role. (LOG-4943)

This enhancement introduces the capability for tuning some output settings, such as compression, retry duration, and maximum payloads, to match the characteristics of the receiver. Additionally, this feature includes a delivery mode to allow administrators to choose between throughput and log durability. For example, the AtLeastOnce option configures minimal disk buffering of collected logs so that the collector can deliver those logs after a restart. (LOG-5026)

This enhancement adds three new Prometheus alerts, warning users about the deprecation of Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana. (LOG-5055)
Log Storage
This enhancement in LokiStack improves support for OTEL by using the new V13 object storage format and enabling automatic stream sharding by default. This also prepares the collector for future enhancements and configurations. (LOG-4538)

This enhancement introduces support for short-lived token workload identity federation with Azure and AWS log stores for STS enabled "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.14 and later clusters. Local storage requires the addition of a CredentialMode: static annotation under spec.storage.secret in the LokiStack CR. (LOG-4540)

With this update, the validation of the Azure storage secret is now extended to give early warning for certain error conditions. (LOG-4571)

With this update, Loki now adds upstream and downstream support for GCP workload identity federation mechanism. This allows authenticated and authorized access to the corresponding object storage services. (LOG-4754)
Bug Fixes
Before this update, the logging must-gather could not collect any logs on a FIPS-enabled cluster. With this update, a new oc client is available in cluster-logging-rhel9-operator, and must-gather works properly on FIPS clusters. (LOG-4403)

Before this update, the LokiStack ruler pods could not format the IPv6 pod IP in HTTP URLs used for cross-pod communication. This issue caused querying rules and alerts through the Prometheus-compatible API to fail. With this update, the LokiStack ruler pods encapsulate the IPv6 pod IP in square brackets, resolving the problem. Now, querying rules and alerts through the Prometheus-compatible API works just like in IPv4 environments. (LOG-4709)

Before this fix, the YAML content from the logging must-gather was exported in a single line, making it unreadable. With this update, the YAML white spaces are preserved, ensuring that the file is properly formatted. (LOG-4792)

Before this update, when the ClusterLogForwarder CR was enabled, the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator could run into a nil pointer exception when ClusterLogging.Spec.Collection was nil. With this update, the issue is now resolved in the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator. (LOG-5006)

Before this update, in specific corner cases, replacing the ClusterLogForwarder CR status field caused the resourceVersion to constantly update due to changing timestamps in Status conditions. This condition led to an infinite reconciliation loop. With this update, all status conditions synchronize, so that timestamps remain unchanged if conditions stay the same. (LOG-5007)

Before this update, there was an internal buffering behavior to drop_newest to address high memory consumption by the collector resulting in significant log loss. With this update, the behavior reverts to using the collector defaults. (LOG-5123)

Before this update, the Loki Operator ServiceMonitor in the openshift-operators-redhat namespace used static token and CA files for authentication, causing errors in the Prometheus Operator in the User Workload Monitoring spec on the ServiceMonitor configuration. With this update, the Loki Operator ServiceMonitor in openshift-operators-redhat namespace now references a service account token secret by a LocalReference object. This approach allows the User Workload Monitoring spec in the Prometheus Operator to handle the Loki Operator ServiceMonitor successfully, enabling Prometheus to scrape the Loki Operator metrics. (LOG-5165)

Before this update, the configuration of the Loki Operator ServiceMonitor could match many Kubernetes services, resulting in the Loki Operator metrics being collected multiple times. With this update, the configuration of ServiceMonitor now only matches the dedicated metrics service. (LOG-5212)
Known Issues
None.
CVEs
CVE-2023-5363

CVE-2023-5981

CVE-2023-46218

CVE-2024-0553

CVE-2023-0567