Troubleshooting hosted control planes

If you encounter issues with hosted control planes, see the following information to guide you through troubleshooting.
Gathering information to troubleshoot hosted control planes
When you need to troubleshoot an issue with hosted control plane clusters, you can gather information by running the hypershift dump cluster command. The command generates output for the management cluster and the hosted cluster.

The output for the management cluster contains the following content:

Cluster-scoped resources: These resources are node definitions of the management cluster.

The hypershift-dump compressed file: This file is useful if you need to share the content with other people.

Namespaced resources: These resources include all of the objects from the relevant namespaces, such as config maps, services, events, and logs.

Network logs: These logs include the OVN northbound and southbound databases and the status for each one.

Hosted clusters: This level of output involves all of the resources inside of the hosted cluster.


The output for the hosted cluster contains the following content:

Cluster-scoped resources: These resources include all of the cluster-wide objects, such as nodes and CRDs.

Namespaced resources: These resources include all of the objects from the relevant namespaces, such as config maps, services, events, and logs.


Although the output does not contain any secret objects from the cluster, it can contain references to the names of secrets.

You must have cluster-admin access to the management cluster.

You need the name value for the HostedCluster resource and the namespace where the CR is deployed.

You must have the hcp command line interface installed. For more information, see Installing the hosted control planes command line interface.

You must have the OpenShift CLI (oc) installed.

You must ensure that the kubeconfig file is loaded and is pointing to the management cluster.


To gather the output for troubleshooting, enter the following command:

To configure the command-line interface so that it impersonates all of the queries against the management cluster by using a username or service account, enter the hypershift dump cluster command with the --as flag.
Pausing the reconciliation of a hosted cluster and hosted control plane
If you are a cluster instance administrator, you can pause the reconciliation of a hosted cluster and hosted control plane. You might want to pause reconciliation when you back up and restore an etcd database or when you need to debug problems with a hosted cluster or hosted control plane.

To pause reconciliation for a hosted cluster and hosted control plane, populate the pausedUntil field of the HostedCluster resource.

To remove the pausedUntil field, enter the following patch command:


Must-gather for a hosted cluster