Migrating your applications

You can migrate your applications by using the Migration Toolkit for Containers (MTC) web console or from the command line.

You can use stage migration and cutover migration to migrate an application between clusters:

Stage migration copies data from the source cluster to the target cluster without stopping the application. You can run a stage migration multiple times to reduce the duration of the cutover migration.

Cutover migration stops the transactions on the source cluster and moves the resources to the target cluster.


You can use state migration to migrate an application's state:

State migration copies selected persistent volume claims (PVCs).

You can use state migration to migrate a namespace within the same cluster.


Most cluster-scoped resources are not yet handled by MTC. If your applications require cluster-scoped resources, you might have to create them manually on the target cluster.

During migration, MTC preserves the following namespace annotations:

openshift.io/sa.scc.mcs

openshift.io/sa.scc.supplemental-groups

openshift.io/sa.scc.uid-range


These annotations preserve the UID range, ensuring that the containers retain their file system permissions on the target cluster. There is a risk that the migrated UIDs could duplicate UIDs within an existing or future namespace on the target cluster.
Migration prerequisites
You must be logged in as a user with cluster-admin privileges on all clusters.


You must ensure that the secure OpenShift image registry of the source cluster is exposed.

You must create a route to the exposed registry.


If your clusters use proxies, you must configure an Stunnel TCP proxy.


If your application uses internal images from the openshift namespace, you must ensure that the required versions of the images are present on the target cluster.


The source cluster must be upgraded to the latest MTC z-stream release.

The MTC version must be the same on all clusters.


The clusters have unrestricted network access to each other and to the replication repository.

If you copy the persistent volumes with move, the clusters must have unrestricted network access to the remote volumes.

You must enable the following ports on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 3 cluster:

You must enable the following ports on an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4 cluster:

You must enable port 443 on the replication repository if you are using TLS.


The PVs must be valid.

The PVs must be bound to persistent volume claims.

If you use snapshots to copy the PVs, the following additional prerequisites apply:



Manually exposing a secure registry for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 3

Updating deprecated internal images
Migrating your applications by using the MTC web console
You can configure clusters and a replication repository by using the MTC web console. Then, you can create and run a migration plan.

Launching the MTC web console
You can launch the Migration Toolkit for Containers (MTC) web console in a browser.

The MTC web console must have network access to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console.

The MTC web console must have network access to the OAuth authorization server.


Log in to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster on which you have installed MTC.

Obtain the MTC web console URL by entering the following command:

Launch a browser and navigate to the MTC web console.

If you are using self-signed CA certificates, you will be prompted to accept the CA certificate of the source cluster API server. The web page guides you through the process of accepting the remaining certificates.

Log in with your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform username and password.
Adding a cluster to the MTC web console
You can add a cluster to the Migration Toolkit for Containers (MTC) web console.

Cross-origin resource sharing must be configured on the source cluster.

If you are using Azure snapshots to copy data:

If you are using direct image migration, you must expose a route to the image registry of the source cluster.


Log in to the cluster.

Obtain the migration-controller service account token:

Log in to the MTC web console.

In the MTC web console, click Clusters.

Click Add cluster.

Fill in the following fields:

Click Add cluster.
Adding a replication repository to the MTC web console
You can add an object storage as a replication repository to the Migration Toolkit for Containers (MTC) web console.

MTC supports the following storage providers:

Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3

Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG)

Generic S3 object storage, for example, Minio or Ceph S3

Google Cloud Provider (GCP)

Microsoft Azure Blob


You must configure the object storage as a replication repository.


In the MTC web console, click Replication repositories.

Click Add repository.

Select a Storage provider type and fill in the following fields:

Click Add repository and wait for connection validation.

Click Close.
Creating a migration plan in the MTC web console
You can create a migration plan in the Migration Toolkit for Containers (MTC) web console.

You must be logged in as a user with cluster-admin privileges on all clusters.

You must ensure that the same MTC version is installed on all clusters.

You must add the clusters and the replication repository to the MTC web console.

If you want to use the move data copy method to migrate a persistent volume (PV), the source and target clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the remote volume.

If you want to use direct image migration, you must specify the exposed route to the image registry of the source cluster. This can be done by using the MTC web console or by updating the MigCluster custom resource manifest.


In the MTC web console, click Migration plans.

Click Add migration plan.

Enter the Plan name.

Select a Source cluster, a Target cluster, and a Repository.

Click Next.

Select the projects for migration.

Optional: Click the edit icon beside a project to change the target namespace.

Click Next.

Select a Migration type for each PV:

Click Next.

Select a Copy method for each PV:

You can select Verify copy to verify data migrated with Filesystem copy. Data is verified by generating a checksum for each source file and checking the checksum after restoration. Data verification significantly reduces performance.

Select a Target storage class.

Click Next.

On the Migration options page, the Direct image migration option is selected if you specified an exposed image registry route for the source cluster. The Direct PV migration option is selected if you are migrating data with Filesystem copy.

Click Next.

Optional: Click Add Hook to add a hook to the migration plan.

Click Finish.



MTC file system copy method

MTC snapshot copy method
Running a migration plan in the MTC web console
You can migrate applications and data with the migration plan you created in the Migration Toolkit for Containers (MTC) web console.

During migration, MTC sets the reclaim policy of migrated persistent volumes (PVs) to Retain on the target cluster.

The Backup custom resource contains a PVOriginalReclaimPolicy annotation that indicates the original reclaim policy. You can manually restore the reclaim policy of the migrated PVs.
The MTC web console must contain the following:

Source cluster in a Ready state

Target cluster in a Ready state

Replication repository

Valid migration plan


Log in to the MTC web console and click Migration plans.

Click the Options menu . next to a migration plan and select one of the following options under Migration:

When the migration is complete, verify that the application migrated successfully in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform web console: