Installing a cluster on Nutanix

In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform version 4.16, you can choose one of the following options to install a cluster on your Nutanix instance:

Using installer-provisioned infrastructure: Use the procedures in the following sections to use installer-provisioned infrastructure. Installer-provisioned infrastructure is ideal for installing in connected or disconnected network environments. The installer-provisioned infrastructure includes an installation program that provisions the underlying infrastructure for the cluster.

Using the Assisted Installer: The Assisted Installer hosted at console.redhat.com. The Assisted Installer cannot be used in disconnected environments. The Assisted Installer does not provision the underlying infrastructure for the cluster, so you must provision the infrastructure before the running the Assisted Installer. Installing with the Assisted Installer also provides integration with Nutanix, enabling autoscaling. See Installing an on-premise cluster using the Assisted Installer for additional details.

Using user-provisioned infrastructure: Complete the relevant steps outlined in the Installing a cluster on any platform documentation.
Prerequisites
You have reviewed details about the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation and update processes.

The installation program requires access to port 9440 on Prism Central and Prism Element. You verified that port 9440 is accessible.

If you use a firewall, you have met these prerequisites:

If your Nutanix environment is using the default self-signed SSL certificate, replace it with a certificate that is signed by a CA. The installation program requires a valid CA-signed certificate to access to the Prism Central API. For more information about replacing the self-signed certificate, see the  Nutanix AOS Security Guide.
Internet access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16, you require access to the internet to install your cluster.

You must have internet access to:

Access https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager] to download the installation program and perform subscription management. If the cluster has internet access and you do not disable Telemetry, that service automatically entitles your cluster.

Access Quay.io to obtain the packages that are required to install your cluster.

Obtain the packages that are required to perform cluster updates.
Internet access for Prism Central
Prism Central requires internet access to obtain the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image that is required to install the cluster. The RHCOS image for Nutanix is available at rhcos.mirror.openshift.com.
Generating a key pair for cluster node SSH access
During an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation, you can provide an SSH public key to the installation program. The key is passed to the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) nodes through their Ignition config files and is used to authenticate SSH access to the nodes. The key is added to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys list for the core user on each node, which enables password-less authentication.

After the key is passed to the nodes, you can use the key pair to SSH in to the RHCOS nodes as the user core. To access the nodes through SSH, the private key identity must be managed by SSH for your local user.

If you want to SSH in to your cluster nodes to perform installation debugging or disaster recovery, you must provide the SSH public key during the installation process. The ./openshift-install gather command also requires the SSH public key to be in place on the cluster nodes.

Do not skip this procedure in production environments, where disaster recovery and debugging is required.
You must use a local key, not one that you configured with platform-specific approaches such as AWS key pairs.
If you do not have an existing SSH key pair on your local machine to use for authentication onto your cluster nodes, create one. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command:

View the public SSH key:

Add the SSH private key identity to the SSH agent for your local user, if it has not already been added. SSH agent management of the key is required for password-less SSH authentication onto your cluster nodes, or if you want to use the ./openshift-install gather command.

Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:


When you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, provide the SSH public key to the installation program.
Obtaining the installation program
Before you install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, download the installation file on  the host you are using for installation.

You have a computer that runs Linux or macOS, with 500 MB of local disk space.


Access the Infrastructure Provider page on the OpenShift Cluster Manager site. If you have a Red Hat account, log in with your credentials. If you do not, create an account.

Select your infrastructure provider.

Navigate to the page for your installation type, download the installation program that corresponds with your host operating system and architecture, and place the file in the directory where you will store the installation configuration files.

Extract the installation program. For example, on a computer that uses a Linux
operating system, run the following command:

Download your installation https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret [pull secret from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]. This pull secret allows you to authenticate with the services that are provided by the included authorities, including Quay.io, which serves the container images for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform components.
Adding Nutanix root CA certificates to your system trust
Because the installation program requires access to the Prism Central API, you must add your Nutanix trusted root CA certificates to your system trust before you install an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.

From the Prism Central web console, download the Nutanix root CA certificates.

Extract the compressed file that contains the Nutanix root CA certificates.

Add the files for your operating system to the system trust. For example, on a Fedora operating system, run the following command:

Update your system trust. For example, on a Fedora operating system, run the following command:
Creating the installation configuration file
You can customize the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster you install on Nutanix.

You have the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that you have met the Nutanix networking requirements. For more information, see "Preparing to install on Nutanix".


Create the install-config.yaml file.

Optional: Update one or more of the default configuration parameters in the install.config.yaml file to customize the installation.

Back up the install-config.yaml file so that you can use
it to install multiple clusters.


Installation configuration parameters for Nutanix


Sample customized install-config.yaml file for Nutanix
You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster's platform or modify the values of the required parameters.

This sample YAML file is provided for reference only. You must obtain your install-config.yaml file by using the installation program and modify it.
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com 1
compute: 2
- hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: worker
  replicas: 3
  platform:
    nutanix: 4
      cpus: 2
      coresPerSocket: 2
      memoryMiB: 8196
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGiB: 120
      categories: 5
      - key: <category_key_name>
        value: <category_value>
controlPlane: 2
  hyperthreading: Enabled 3
  name: master
  replicas: 3
  platform:
    nutanix: 4
      cpus: 4
      coresPerSocket: 2
      memoryMiB: 16384
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGiB: 120
      categories: 5
      - key: <category_key_name>
        value: <category_value>
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: test-cluster 1
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
    - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
      hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
    - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
  networkType: OVNKubernetes 6
  serviceNetwork:
    - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  nutanix:
    apiVIPs:
      - 10.40.142.7 1
    defaultMachinePlatform:
      bootType: Legacy
      categories: 5
      - key: <category_key_name>
        value: <category_value>
      project: 7
        type: name
        name: <project_name>
    ingressVIPs:
      - 10.40.142.8 1
    prismCentral:
      endpoint:
        address: your.prismcentral.domainname 1
        port: 9440 1
      password: <password> 1
      username: <username> 1
    prismElements:
    - endpoint:
        address: your.prismelement.domainname
        port: 9440
      uuid: 0005b0f1-8f43-a0f2-02b7-3cecef193712
    subnetUUIDs:
    - c7938dc6-7659-453e-a688-e26020c68e43
    clusterOSImage: http://example.com/images/rhcos-47.83.202103221318-0-nutanix.x86_64.qcow2 8
credentialsMode: Manual
publish: External
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}' 1
fips: false 9
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA... 10
Required. The installation program prompts you for this value.

The controlPlane section is a single mapping, but the compute section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the compute section must begin with a hyphen, -, and the first line of the controlPlane section must not. Although both sections currently define a single machine pool, it is possible that future versions of Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform will support defining multiple compute pools during installation. Only one control plane pool is used.

Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or hyperthreading. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by setting the parameter value to Disabled. If you disable simultaneous multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster machines.

Optional: Provide additional configuration for the machine pool parameters for the compute and control plane machines.

Optional: Provide one or more pairs of a prism category key and a prism category value. These category key-value pairs must exist in Prism Central. You can provide separate categories to compute machines, control plane machines, or all machines.

TThe cluster network plugin to install. The default value OVNKubernetes is the only supported value.

Optional: Specify a project with which VMs are associated. Specify either name or uuid for the project type, and then provide the corresponding UUID or project name. You can associate projects to compute machines, control plane machines, or all machines.

Optional: By default, the installation program downloads and installs the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image. If Prism Central does not have internet access, you can override the default behavior by hosting the RHCOS image on any HTTP server and pointing the installation program to the image.

Whether to enable or disable FIPS mode. By default, FIPS mode is not enabled. If FIPS mode is enabled, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines that Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform runs on bypass the default Kubernetes cryptography suite and use the cryptography modules that are provided with RHCOS instead.

Optional: You can provide the sshKey value that you use to access the machines in your cluster.
Configuring failure domains
Failure domains improve the fault tolerance of an Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster by distributing control plane and compute machines across multiple Nutanix Prism Elements (clusters).

It is recommended that you configure three failure domains to ensure high-availability.
You have an installation configuration file (install-config.yaml).


Edit the install-config.yaml file and add the following stanza to configure the first failure domain:

As required, configure additional failure domains.

To distribute control plane and compute machines across the failure domains, do one of the following:

Save the file.
Configuring the cluster-wide proxy during installation
Production environments can deny direct access to the internet and instead have an HTTP or HTTPS proxy available. You can configure a new Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster to use a proxy by configuring the proxy settings in the install-config.yaml file.

You have an existing install-config.yaml file.

You reviewed the sites that your cluster requires access to and determined whether any of them need to bypass the proxy. By default, all cluster egress traffic is proxied, including calls to hosting cloud provider APIs. You added sites to the Proxy object's spec.noProxy field to bypass the proxy if necessary.


Edit your install-config.yaml file and add the proxy settings. For example:

Save the file and reference it when installing Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.


The installation program creates a cluster-wide proxy that is named cluster that uses the proxy settings in the provided install-config.yaml file. If no proxy settings are provided, a cluster Proxy object is still created, but it will have a nil spec.

Only the Proxy object named cluster is supported, and no additional proxies can be created.
Installing the OpenShift CLI
You can install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to interact with Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform from a command-line interface. You can install oc on Linux, Windows, or macOS.

If you installed an earlier version of oc, you cannot use it to complete all of the commands in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16. Download and install the new version of oc.

You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Linux by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the architecture from the Product Variant drop-down list.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.16 Linux Client entry and save the file.

Unpack the archive:

Place the oc binary in a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on Windows by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.16 Windows Client entry and save the file.

Unzip the archive with a ZIP program.

Move the oc binary to a directory that is on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:



You can install the OpenShift CLI (oc) binary on macOS by using the following procedure.

Navigate to the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform downloads page on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Select the appropriate version from the Version drop-down list.

Click Download Now next to the OpenShift v4.16 macOS Client entry and save the file.

Unpack and unzip the archive.

Move the oc binary to a directory on your PATH.


After you install the OpenShift CLI, it is available using the oc command:
Configuring IAM for Nutanix
Installing the cluster requires that the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) operate in manual mode. While the installation program configures the CCO for manual mode, you must specify the identity and access management secrets.

You have configured the ccoctl binary.

You have an install-config.yaml file.


Create a YAML file that contains the credentials data in the following format:

Set a $RELEASE_IMAGE variable with the release image from your installation file by running the following command:

Extract the list of CredentialsRequest custom resources (CRs) from the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform release image by running the following command:

Use the ccoctl tool to process all CredentialsRequest objects by running the following command:

Edit the install-config.yaml configuration file so that the credentialsMode parameter is set to Manual.

Create the installation manifests by running the following command:

Copy the generated credential files to the target manifests directory by running the following command:


Ensure that the appropriate secrets exist in the manifests directory.
Adding config map and secret resources required for Nutanix CCM
Installations on Nutanix require additional ConfigMap and Secret resources to integrate with the Nutanix Cloud Controller Manager (CCM).

You have created a manifests directory within your installation directory.


Navigate to the manifests directory:

Create the cloud-conf ConfigMap file with the name openshift-cloud-controller-manager-cloud-config.yaml and add the following information:

Verify that the file cluster-infrastructure-02-config.yml exists and has the following information:
Deploying the cluster
You can install Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on a compatible cloud platform.

You can run the create cluster command of the installation program only once, during initial installation.
You have the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program and the pull secret for your cluster.

You have verified that the cloud provider account on your host has the correct permissions to deploy the cluster. An account with incorrect permissions causes the installation process to fail with an error message that displays the missing permissions.


Change to the directory that contains the installation program and initialize the cluster deployment:


When the cluster deployment completes successfully:

The terminal displays directions for accessing your cluster, including a link to the web console and credentials for the kubeadmin user.

Credential information also outputs to <installation_directory>/.openshift_install.log.


Do not delete the installation program or the files that the installation program creates. Both are required to delete the cluster.
...
INFO Install complete!
INFO To access the cluster as the system:admin user when using 'oc', run 'export KUBECONFIG=/home/myuser/install_dir/auth/kubeconfig'
INFO Access the OpenShift web-console here: https://console-openshift-console.apps.mycluster.example.com
INFO Login to the console with user: "kubeadmin", and password: "password"
INFO Time elapsed: 36m22s
The Ignition config files that the installation program generates contain certificates that expire after 24 hours, which are then renewed at that time. If the cluster is shut down before renewing the certificates and the cluster is later restarted after the 24 hours have elapsed, the cluster automatically recovers the expired certificates. The exception is that you must manually approve the pending node-bootstrapper certificate signing requests (CSRs) to recover kubelet certificates. See the documentation for Recovering from expired control plane certificates for more information.

It is recommended that you use Ignition config files within 12 hours after they are generated because the 24-hour certificate rotates from 16 to 22 hours after the cluster is installed. By using the Ignition config files within 12 hours, you can avoid installation failure if the certificate update runs during installation.
Configuring the default storage container
After you install the cluster, you must install the Nutanix CSI Operator and configure the default storage container for the cluster.

For more information, see the Nutanix documentation for installing the CSI Operator and configuring registry storage.
Telemetry access for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
In Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.16, the Telemetry service, which runs by default to provide metrics about cluster health and the success of updates, requires internet access. If your cluster is connected to the internet, Telemetry runs automatically, and your cluster is registered to https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager].

After you confirm that your https://console.redhat.com/openshift [OpenShift Cluster Manager] inventory is correct, either maintained automatically by Telemetry or manually by using OpenShift Cluster Manager, use subscription watch to track your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform subscriptions at the account or multi-cluster level.
Additional resources
About remote health monitoring
Next steps
Opt out of remote health reporting

Customize your cluster