Persistent storage using local volumes

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" can be provisioned with persistent storage by using local volumes. Local persistent volumes allow you to access local storage devices, such as a disk or partition, by using the standard persistent volume claim interface.

Local volumes can be used without manually scheduling pods to nodes because the system is aware of the volume node constraints. However, local volumes are still subject to the availability of the underlying node and are not suitable for all applications.

Local volumes can only be used as a statically created persistent volume.
Installing the Local Storage Operator
The Local Storage Operator is not installed in "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" by default. Use the following procedure to install and configure this Operator to enable local volumes in your cluster.

Access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or command-line interface (CLI).


Create the openshift-local-storage project:

Optional: Allow local storage creation on infrastructure nodes.

Optional: Allow local storage to run on the management pool of CPUs in single-node deployment.


To install the Local Storage Operator from the web console, follow these steps:

Log in to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

Navigate to Operators -> OperatorHub.

Type Local Storage into the filter box to locate the Local Storage Operator.

Click Install.

On the Install Operator page, select A specific namespace on the cluster. Select openshift-local-storage from the drop-down menu.

Adjust the values for Update Channel and Approval Strategy to the values that you want.

Click Install.


Once finished, the Local Storage Operator will be listed in the Installed Operators section of the web console.

Install the Local Storage Operator from the CLI.

Create the Local Storage Operator object by entering the following command:

Verify local storage installation by checking that all pods and the Local Storage Operator have been created:


After all checks have passed, the Local Storage Operator is installed successfully.
Provisioning local volumes by using the Local Storage Operator
Local volumes cannot be created by dynamic provisioning. Instead, persistent volumes can be created by the Local Storage Operator. The local volume provisioner looks for any file system or block volume devices at the paths specified in the defined resource.

The Local Storage Operator is installed.

You have a local disk that meets the following conditions:


Create the local volume resource. This resource must define the nodes and paths to the local volumes.

Create the local volume resource in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. Specify the file you just created:

Verify that the provisioner was created and that the corresponding daemon sets were created:

Verify that the persistent volumes were created:


Editing the LocalVolume object does not change the fsType or volumeMode of existing persistent volumes because doing so might result in a destructive operation.
Provisioning local volumes without the Local Storage Operator
Local volumes cannot be created by dynamic provisioning. Instead, persistent volumes can be created by defining the persistent volume (PV) in an object definition. The local volume provisioner looks for any file system or block volume devices at the paths specified in the defined resource.

Manual provisioning of PVs includes the risk of potential data leaks across PV reuse when PVCs are deleted. The Local Storage Operator is recommended for automating the life cycle of devices when provisioning local PVs.
Local disks are attached to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes.


Define the PV. Create a file, such as example-pv-filesystem.yaml or example-pv-block.yaml, with the PersistentVolume object definition. This resource must define the nodes and paths to the local volumes.

Create the PV resource in your "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster. Specify the file you just created:

Verify that the local PV was created:
Creating the local volume persistent volume claim
Local volumes must be statically created as a persistent volume claim (PVC) to be accessed by the pod.

Persistent volumes have been created using the local volume provisioner.


Create the PVC using the corresponding storage class:

Create the PVC in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, specifying the file
you just created:
Attach the local claim
After a local volume has been mapped to a persistent volume claim it can be specified inside of a resource.

A persistent volume claim exists in the same namespace.


Include the defined claim in the resource spec. The following example
declares the persistent volume claim inside a pod:

Create the resource in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster, specifying the file
you just created:
Automating discovery and provisioning for local storage devices
The Local Storage Operator automates local storage discovery and provisioning. With this feature, you can simplify installation when dynamic provisioning is not available during deployment, such as with bare metal, VMware, or AWS store instances with attached devices.

Automatic discovery and provisioning is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Automatic discovery and provisioning is fully supported when used to deploy Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation on-premise or with platform-agnostic deployment.
Use the following procedure to automatically discover local devices, and to automatically provision local volumes for selected devices.

Use the LocalVolumeSet object with caution. When you automatically provision persistent volumes (PVs) from local disks, the local PVs might claim all devices that match. If you are using a LocalVolumeSet object, make sure the Local Storage Operator is the only entity managing local devices on the node. Creating multiple instances of a LocalVolumeSet that target a node more than once is not supported.
You have cluster administrator permissions.

You have installed the Local Storage Operator.

You have attached local disks to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes.

You have access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console and the oc command-line interface (CLI).


To enable automatic discovery of local devices from the web console:

To display a continuous list of available devices on a node:

To automatically provision local volumes for the discovered devices from the web console:

Alternatively, to provision local volumes for the discovered devices from the CLI:


Results are deleted after they are removed from the node. Symlinks must be manually removed.
Using tolerations with Local Storage Operator pods
Taints can be applied to nodes to prevent them from running general workloads. To allow the Local Storage Operator to use tainted nodes, you must add tolerations to the Pod or DaemonSet definition. This allows the created resources to run on these tainted nodes.

You apply tolerations to the Local Storage Operator pod through the LocalVolume resource and apply taints to a node through the node specification. A taint on a node instructs the node to repel all pods that do not tolerate the taint. Using a specific taint that is not on other pods ensures that the Local Storage Operator pod can also run on that node.

Taints and tolerations consist of a key, value, and effect. As an argument, it is expressed as key=value:effect. An operator allows you to leave one of these parameters empty.
The Local Storage Operator is installed.

Local disks are attached to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" nodes with a taint.

Tainted nodes are expected to provision local storage.


To configure local volumes for scheduling on tainted nodes:

Modify the YAML file that defines the Pod and add the LocalVolume spec, as shown in the following example:

Optional: To create local persistent volumes on only tainted nodes, modify the YAML file and add the LocalVolume spec, as shown in the following example:


The defined tolerations will be passed to the resulting daemon sets, allowing the diskmaker and provisioner pods to be created for nodes that contain the specified taints.
Local Storage Operator Metrics
"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" provides the following metrics for the Local Storage Operator:

lso_discovery_disk_count: total number of discovered devices on each node

lso_lvset_provisioned_PV_count: total number of PVs created by LocalVolumeSet objects

lso_lvset_unmatched_disk_count: total number of disks that Local Storage Operator did not select for provisioning because of mismatching criteria

lso_lvset_orphaned_symlink_count: number of devices with PVs that no longer match LocalVolumeSet object criteria

lso_lv_orphaned_symlink_count: number of devices with PVs that no longer match LocalVolume object criteria

lso_lv_provisioned_PV_count: total number of provisioned PVs for LocalVolume


To use these metrics, be sure to:

Enable support for monitoring when installing the Local Storage Operator.

When upgrading to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4.9 or later, enable metric support manually by adding the operator-metering=true label to the namespace.


For more information about metrics, see Managing metrics.
Deleting the Local Storage Operator resources
Removing a local volume or local volume set
Occasionally, local volumes and local volume sets must be deleted. While removing the entry in the resource and deleting the persistent volume is typically enough, if you want to reuse the same device path or have it managed by a different storage class, then additional steps are needed.

The following procedure outlines an example for removing a local volume. The same procedure can also be used to remove symlinks for a local volume set custom resource.
The persistent volume must be in a Released or Available state.


Edit the previously created local volume to remove any unwanted disks.

Delete any persistent volumes created.

Delete directory and included symlinks on the node.
Uninstalling the Local Storage Operator
To uninstall the Local Storage Operator, you must remove the Operator and all created resources in the openshift-local-storage project.

Uninstalling the Local Storage Operator while local storage PVs are still in use is not recommended. While the PVs will remain after the Operator's removal, there might be indeterminate behavior if the Operator is uninstalled and reinstalled without removing the PVs and local storage resources.
Access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.


Delete any local volume resources installed in the project, such as localvolume, localvolumeset, and localvolumediscovery:

Uninstall the Local Storage Operator from the web console.

The PVs created by the Local Storage Operator will remain in the cluster until deleted. After these volumes are no longer in use, delete them by running the following command:

Delete the openshift-local-storage project: