Installation configuration parameters for IBM Cloud

Before you deploy an "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" cluster on IBM Cloud&#174;, you provide parameters to customize your cluster and the platform that hosts it. When you create the install-config.yaml file, you provide values for the required parameters through the command line. You can then modify the install-config.yaml file to customize your cluster further.
Available installation configuration parameters for IBM Cloud
The following tables specify the required, optional, and IBM Cloud-specific installation configuration parameters that you can set as part of the installation process.

After installation, you cannot modify these parameters in the install-config.yaml file.
Required configuration parameters
Required installation configuration parameters are described in the following table:
Network configuration parameters
You can customize your installation configuration based on the requirements of your existing network infrastructure. For example, you can expand the IP address block for the cluster network or provide different IP address blocks than the defaults.

Only IPv4 addresses are supported.

Globalnet is not supported with Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation disaster recovery solutions. For regional disaster recovery scenarios, ensure that you use a nonoverlapping range of private IP addresses for the cluster and service networks in each cluster.
Optional configuration parameters
Optional installation configuration parameters are described in the following table:


Not all CCO modes are supported for all cloud providers. For more information about CCO modes, see the "Managing cloud provider credentials" entry in the Authentication and authorization content.
Additional IBM Cloud configuration parameters
Additional IBM Cloud&#174; configuration parameters are described in the following table:


Whether you define an existing resource group, or if the installer creates one, determines how the resource group is treated when the cluster is uninstalled. If you define a resource group, the installer removes all of the installer-provisioned resources, but leaves the resource group alone; if a resource group is created as part of the installation, the installer removes all of the installer-provisioned resources and the resource group.

To determine which profile best meets your needs, see Instance Profiles in the IBM&#174; documentation.