Tang server installation considerations

Network-Bound Disk Encryption (NBDE) must be enabled when a cluster node is installed. However, you can change the disk encryption policy at any time after it was initialized at installation.
Installation scenarios
Consider the following recommendations when planning Tang server installations:

Small environments can use a single set of key material, even when using multiple Tang servers:

Large environments can benefit from multiple sets of key material:

Further complexity:

High level recommendations:
Installing a Tang server
To deploy one or more Tang servers, you can choose from the following options depending on your scenario:

Deploying a Tang server using the NBDE Tang Server Operator

Deploying a Tang server with SELinux in enforcing mode on RHEL systems

Configuring a Tang server in the RHEL web console

Deploying Tang as a container

Using the nbde_server System Role for setting up multiple Tang servers


Compute requirements
The computational requirements for the Tang server are very low. Any typical server grade configuration that you would use to deploy a server into production can provision sufficient compute capacity.

High availability considerations are solely for availability and not additional compute power to satisfy client demands.
Automatic start at boot
Due to the sensitive nature of the key material the Tang server uses, you should keep in mind that the overhead of manual intervention during the Tang server’s boot sequence can be beneficial.

By default, if a Tang server starts and does not have key material present in the expected local volume, it will create fresh material and serve it.  You can avoid this default behavior by either starting with pre-existing key material or aborting the startup and waiting for manual intervention.
HTTP versus HTTPS
Traffic to the Tang server can be encrypted (HTTPS) or plaintext (HTTP). There are no significant security advantages of encrypting this traffic, and leaving it decrypted removes any complexity or failure conditions related to Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificate checking in the node running a Clevis client.

While it is possible to perform passive monitoring of unencrypted traffic between the node’s Clevis client and the Tang server, the ability to use this traffic to determine the key material is at best a future theoretical concern. Any such traffic analysis would require large quantities of captured data. Key rotation would immediately invalidate it. Finally, any threat actor able to perform passive monitoring has already obtained the necessary network access to perform manual connections to the Tang server and can perform the simpler manual decryption of captured Clevis headers.

However, because other network policies in place at the installation site might require traffic encryption regardless of application, consider leaving this decision to the cluster administrator.

Configuring automated unlocking of encrypted volumes using policy-based decryption in the RHEL 8 Security hardening document

Official Tang server container

Encrypting and mirroring disks during installation