Understanding how to add custom metrics autoscalers

To add a custom metrics autoscaler, create a ScaledObject custom resource for a deployment, stateful set, or custom resource. Create a ScaledJob custom resource for a job.

You can create only one scaled object for each workload that you want to scale. Also, you cannot use a scaled object and the horizontal pod autoscaler (HPA) on the same workload.
Adding a custom metrics autoscaler to a workload
You can create a custom metrics autoscaler for a workload that is created by a Deployment, StatefulSet, or custom resource object.

The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator must be installed.

If you use a custom metrics autoscaler for scaling based on CPU or memory:


Create a YAML file similar to the following. Only the name <2>, object name <4>, and object kind <5> are required:

Create the custom metrics autoscaler by running the following command:


View the command output to verify that the custom metrics autoscaler was created:
Adding a custom metrics autoscaler to a job
You can create a custom metrics autoscaler for any Job object.

Scaling by using a scaled job is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator must be installed.


Create a YAML file similar to the following:

Create the custom metrics autoscaler by running the following command:


View the command output to verify that the custom metrics autoscaler was created:
Additional resources
Understanding custom metrics autoscaler trigger authentications