Understanding identity provider configuration

The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform master includes a built-in OAuth server. Developers and administrators obtain OAuth access tokens to authenticate themselves to the API.

As an administrator, you can configure OAuth to specify an identity provider after you install your cluster.
About identity providers in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform
By default, only a kubeadmin user exists on your cluster. To specify an identity provider, you must create a custom resource (CR) that describes that identity provider and add it to the cluster.

Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform user names containing /, :, and % are not supported.
Supported identity providers
You can configure the following types of identity providers:


Once an identity provider has been defined, you can use RBAC to define and apply permissions.
Removing the kubeadmin user
After you define an identity provider and create a new cluster-admin user, you can remove the kubeadmin to improve cluster security.

If you follow this procedure before another user is a cluster-admin, then Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform must be reinstalled. It is not possible to undo this command.
You must have configured at least one identity provider.

You must have added the cluster-admin role to a user.

You must be logged in as an administrator.


Remove the kubeadmin secrets:
Identity provider parameters
The following parameters are common to all identity providers:


When adding or changing identity providers, you can map identities from the new
provider to existing users by setting the mappingMethod parameter to
add.
Sample identity provider CR
The following custom resource (CR) shows the parameters and default values that you use to configure an identity provider. This example uses the htpasswd identity provider.

apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: OAuth
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  identityProviders:
  - name: my_identity_provider 1
    mappingMethod: claim 2
    type: HTPasswd
    htpasswd:
      fileData:
        name: htpass-secret 3
This provider name is prefixed to provider user names to form an
identity name.

Controls how mappings are established between this provider's
identities and User objects.

An existing secret containing a file generated using
htpasswd.