Creating a cluster with multi-architecture compute machine on Azure

To deploy an Azure cluster with multi-architecture compute machines, you must first create a single-architecture Azure installer-provisioned cluster that uses the multi-architecture installer binary. For more information on Azure installations, see Installing a cluster on Azure with customizations. You can then add an ARM64 compute machine set to your cluster to create a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines.

The following procedures explain how to generate an ARM64 boot image and create an Azure compute machine set that uses the ARM64 boot image. This adds ARM64 compute nodes to your cluster and deploys the amount of ARM64 virtual machines (VM) that you need.
Verifying cluster compatibility
Before you can start adding compute nodes of different architectures to your cluster, you must verify that your cluster is multi-architecture compatible.

You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc)


You can check that your cluster uses the architecture payload by running the following command:


If you see the following output, then your cluster is using the multi-architecture payload:

If you see the following output, then your cluster is not using the multi-architecture payload:
Creating an ARM64 boot image using the Azure image gallery
The following procedure describes how to manually generate an ARM64 boot image.

You installed the Azure CLI (az).

You created a single-architecture Azure installer-provisioned cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary.


Log in to your Azure account:

Create a storage account and upload the arm64 virtual hard disk (VHD) to your storage account. The Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program creates a resource group, however, the boot image can also be uploaded to a custom named resource group:

Create a storage container using the storage account you generated:

You must use the Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform installation program JSON file to extract the URL and aarch64 VHD name:

Generate a shared access signature (SAS) token. Use this token to upload the RHCOS VHD to your storage container with the following commands:

Copy the RHCOS VHD into the storage container:

Create an image gallery using the following command:

To get the URL of the VHD and set it to RHCOS_VHD_URL as the file name, run the following command:

Use the RHCOS_VHD_URL file, your storage account, resource group, and image gallery to create an image version. In the following example, 1.0.0 is the image version.

Your arm64 boot image is now generated. You can access the ID of your image with the following command:
Adding a multi-architecture compute machine set to your cluster
To add ARM64 compute nodes to your cluster, you must create an Azure compute machine set that uses the ARM64 boot image. To create your own custom compute machine set on Azure, see "Creating a compute machine set on Azure".

You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Create a compute machine set and modify the resourceID and vmSize parameters with the following command. This compute machine set will control the arm64 worker nodes in your cluster:


Verify that the new ARM64 machines are running by entering the following command:

You can check that the nodes are ready and scheduable with the following command:


Creating a compute machine set on Azure