Troubleshooting network issues

How the network interface is selected
For installations on bare metal or with virtual machines that have more than one network interface controller (NIC), the NIC that Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform uses for communication with the Kubernetes API server is determined by the nodeip-configuration.service service unit that is run by systemd when the node boots. The nodeip-configuration.service selects the IP from the interface associated with the default route.

After the nodeip-configuration.service service determines the correct NIC, the service creates the /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/20-nodenet.conf file. The 20-nodenet.conf file sets the KUBELET_NODE_IP environment variable to the IP address that the service selected.

When the kubelet service starts, it reads the value of the environment variable from the 20-nodenet.conf file and sets the IP address as the value of the --node-ip kubelet command-line argument. As a result, the kubelet service uses the selected IP address as the node IP address.

If hardware or networking is reconfigured after installation, or if there is a networking layout where the node IP should not come from the default route interface, it is possible for the nodeip-configuration.service service to select a different NIC after a reboot. In some cases, you might be able to detect that a different NIC is selected by reviewing the INTERNAL-IP column in the output from the oc get nodes -o wide command.

If network communication is disrupted or misconfigured because a different NIC is selected, you might receive the following error: EtcdCertSignerControllerDegraded. You can create a hint file that includes the NODEIP_HINT variable to override the default IP selection logic. For more information, see Optional: Overriding the default node IP selection logic.

Optional: Overriding the default node IP selection logic
To override the default IP selection logic, you can create a hint file that includes the NODEIP_HINT variable to override the default IP selection logic. Creating a hint file allows you to select a specific node IP address from the interface in the subnet of the IP address specified in the NODEIP_HINT variable.

For example, if a node has two interfaces, eth0 with an address of 10.0.0.10/24, and eth1 with an address of 192.0.2.5/24, and the default route points to eth0 (10.0.0.10),the node IP address would normally use the 10.0.0.10 IP address.

Users can configure the NODEIP_HINT variable to point at a known IP in the subnet, for example, a subnet gateway such as 192.0.2.1 so that the other subnet, 192.0.2.0/24, is selected. As a result, the 192.0.2.5 IP address on eth1 is used for the node.

The following procedure shows how to override the default node IP selection logic.

Add a hint file to your /etc/default/nodeip-configuration file, for example:

Generate the base-64 encoded content by running the following command:

Activate the hint by creating a machine config manifest for both master and worker roles before deploying the cluster:

Save the manifest to the directory where you store your cluster configuration, for example, ~/clusterconfigs.

Deploy the cluster.
Troubleshooting Open vSwitch issues
To troubleshoot some Open vSwitch (OVS) issues, you might need to configure the log level to include more information.

If you modify the log level on a node temporarily, be aware that you can receive log messages from the machine config daemon on the node like the following example:

E0514 12:47:17.998892    2281 daemon.go:1350] content mismatch for file /etc/systemd/system/ovs-vswitchd.service: [Unit]
To avoid the log messages related to the mismatch, revert the log level change after you complete your troubleshooting.

Configuring the Open vSwitch log level temporarily
For short-term troubleshooting, you can configure the Open vSwitch (OVS) log level temporarily. The following procedure does not require rebooting the node. In addition, the configuration change does not persist whenever you reboot the node.

After you perform this procedure to change the log level, you can receive log messages from the machine config daemon that indicate a content mismatch for the ovs-vswitchd.service. To avoid the log messages, repeat this procedure and set the log level to the original value.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Start a debug pod for a node:

Set /host as the root directory within the debug shell. The debug pod mounts the root file system from the host in /host within the pod. By changing the root directory to /host, you can run binaries from the host file system:

View the current syslog level for OVS modules:

Specify the log level in the /etc/systemd/system/ovs-vswitchd.service.d/10-ovs-vswitchd-restart.conf file:

Restart the service:
Configuring the Open vSwitch log level permanently
For long-term changes to the Open vSwitch (OVS) log level, you can change the log level permanently.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Create a file, such as 99-change-ovs-loglevel.yaml, with a MachineConfig object like the following example:

Apply the machine config:


Understanding the Machine Config Operator

Checking machine config pool status
Displaying Open vSwitch logs
Use the following procedure to display Open vSwitch (OVS) logs.

You have access to the cluster as a user with the cluster-admin role.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Run one of the following commands: